Problem Motivation.In this next set of videos, I'd like to tell you about a problem called Anomaly Detection.
Play video starting at ::5 and follow transcript0:05
This is a reasonably commonly use you type machine learning. And one of the interesting aspects is that it's mainly for unsupervised problem, that there's some aspects of it that are also very similar to sort of the supervised learning problem.
Play video starting at ::21 and follow transcript0:21
So, what is anomaly detection? To explain it. Let me use the motivating example of: Imagine that you're a manufacturer of aircraft engines, and let's say that as your aircraft engines roll off the assembly line, you're doing, you know, QA or quality assurance testing, and as part of that testing you measure features of your aircraft engine, like maybe, you measure the heat generated, things like the vibrations and so on. I share some friends that worked on this problem a long time ago, and these were actually the sorts of features that they were collecting off actual aircraft engines so you now have a data set of X1 through Xm, if you have manufactured m aircraft engines, and if you plot your data, maybe it looks like this. So, each point here, each cross here as one of your unlabeled examples.
Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11
So, the anomaly detection problem is the following.
Play video starting at :1:16 and follow transcript1:16
Let's say that on, you know, the next day, you have a new aircraft engine that rolls off the assembly line and your new aircraft engine has some set of features x-test. What the anomaly detection problem is, we want to know if this aircraft engine is anomalous in any way, in other words, we want to know if, maybe, this engine should undergo further testing
Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37
because, or if it looks like an okay engine, and so it's okay to just ship it to a customer without further testing.
Play video starting at :1:44 and follow transcript1:44
So, if your new aircraft engine looks like a point over there, well, you know, that looks a lot like the aircraft engines we've seen before, and so maybe we'll say that it looks okay. Whereas, if your new aircraft engine, if x-test, you know, were a point that were out here, so that if X1 and X2 are the features of this new example. If x-tests were all the way out there, then we would call that an anomaly.
Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10
and maybe send that aircraft engine for further testing before we ship it to a customer, since it looks very different than the rest of the aircraft engines we've seen before. More formally in the anomaly detection problem, we're give some data sets, x1 through Xm of examples, and we usually assume that these end examples are normal or non-anomalous examples, and we want an algorithm to tell us if some new example x-test is anomalous. The approach that we're going to take is that given this training set, given the unlabeled training set, we're going to build a model for p of x. In other words, we're going to build a model for the probability of x, where x are these features of, say, aircraft engines.
Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54
And so, having built a model of the probability of x we're then going to say that for the new aircraft engine, if p of x-test is less than some epsilon then we flag this as an anomaly.
Play video starting at :3:11 and follow transcript3:11
So we see a new engine that, you know, has very low probability under a model p of x that we estimate from the data, then we flag this anomaly, whereas if p of x-test is, say, greater than or equal to some small threshold.
Play video starting at :3:25 and follow transcript3:25
Then we say that, you know, okay, it looks okay.
Play video starting at :3:27 and follow transcript3:27
And so, given the training set, like that plotted here, if you build a model, hopefully you will find that aircraft engines, or hopefully the model p of x will say that points that lie, you know, somewhere in the middle, that's pretty high probability,
Play video starting at :3:40 and follow transcript3:40
whereas points a little bit further out have lower probability.
Play video starting at :3:43 and follow transcript3:43
Points that are even further out have somewhat lower probability, and the point that's way out here, the point that's way out there, would be an anomaly.
Play video starting at :3:54 and follow transcript3:54
Whereas the point that's way in there, right in the middle, this would be okay because p of x right in the middle of that would be very high cause we've seen a lot of points in that region.
Play video starting at :4:4 and follow transcript4:04
Here are some examples of applications of anomaly detection. Perhaps the most common application of anomaly detection is actually for detection if you have many users, and if each of your users take different activities, you know maybe on your website or in the physical plant or something, you can compute features of the different users activities.
Play video starting at :4:24 and follow transcript4:24
And what you can do is build a model to say, you know, what is the probability of different users behaving different ways. What is the probability of a particular vector of features of a users behavior so you know examples of features of a users activity may be on the website it'd be things like,
Play video starting at :4:42 and follow transcript4:42
maybe x1 is how often does this user log in, x2, you know, maybe the number of what pages visited, or the number of transactions, maybe x3 is, you know, the number of posts of the users on the forum, feature x4 could be what is the typing speed of the user and some websites can actually track that was the typing speed of this user in characters per second. And so you can model p of x based on this sort of data.
Play video starting at :5:8 and follow transcript5:08
And finally having your model p of x, you can try to identify users that are behaving very strangely on your website by checking which ones have probably effects less than epsilon and maybe send the profiles of those users for further review.
Play video starting at :5:22 and follow transcript5:22
Or demand additional identification from those users, or some such to guard against you know, strange behavior or fraudulent behavior on your website.
Play video starting at :5:33 and follow transcript5:33
This sort of technique will tend of flag the users that are behaving unusually, not just
Play video starting at :5:39 and follow transcript5:39
users that maybe behaving fraudulently. So not just constantly having stolen or users that are trying to do funny things, or just find unusual users. But this is actually the technique that is used by many online
Play video starting at :5:52 and follow transcript5:52
websites that sell things to try identify users behaving strangely that might be indicative of either fraudulent behavior or of computer accounts that have been stolen.
Play video starting at :6:3 and follow transcript6:03
Another example of anomaly detection is manufacturing. So, already talked about the aircraft engine thing where you can find unusual, say, aircraft engines and send those for further review.
Play video starting at :6:15 and follow transcript6:15
A third application would be monitoring computers in a data center. I actually have some friends who work on this too. So if you have a lot of machines in a computer cluster or in a data center, we can do things like compute features at each machine. So maybe some features capturing you know, how much memory used, number of disc accesses, CPU load. As well as more complex features like what is the CPU load on this machine divided by the amount of network traffic on this machine? Then given the dataset of how your computers in your data center usually behave, you can model the probability of x, so you can model the probability of these machines having
Play video starting at :6:52 and follow transcript6:52
different amounts of memory use or probability of these machines having different numbers of disc accesses or different CPU loads and so on. And if you ever have a machine whose probability of x, p of x, is very small then you know that machine is behaving unusually
Play video starting at :7:7 and follow transcript7:07
and maybe that machine is about to go down, and you can flag that for review by a system administrator.
Play video starting at :7:14 and follow transcript7:14
And this is actually being used today by various data centers to watch out for unusual things happening on their machines.
Play video starting at :7:22 and follow transcript7:22
So, that's anomaly detection.
Play video starting at :7:25 and follow transcript7:25
In the next video, I'll talk a bit about the Gaussian distribution and review properties of the Gaussian probability distribution, and in videos after that, we will apply it to develop an anomaly detection algorithm.