Face to Face Office Hours - New Orleans, LA2m.
Hello everybody.
Here we are at yet another office hours.
This one happens to come from New Orleans, Louisiana and we have a couple of students who showed up in only on a very short, less than 24 hours notice and I'd like to introduce them and let them say a word or two to you, their fellow students, okay?
So say your first name and what you took, and say something to the students.
I'm David Miller I took the History of the Internet course with my son here next to me, and I live here in Slidell, Louisiana.
Hi I'm Abram Miller.
Yes.
I took both Python for Everybody and the History of the Internet Course.
Cool.
And it's really fun.
Thanks.
Hi, I'm Emily Ashley.
I took Python for Everybody in 2015 and I'm a software developer.
But where were you before you took Python for Everybody?
I worked in the non-profit industry with a degree in Urban Planning.
You weren't a software developer?
Nope.
And then what did you do between the time you took Python for Everybody and were a software developer?
I went to software conferences to learn what people were building and what they were using and I learned it.
And you took some boot camps?
Oh yes, I took a boot camp.
And then you were software developer.
And then I was a software developer.
So what I like about that story, even though I had to tell most of it, is the start with sort of Python for Everybody, do some real intense boot camps, and what I like is the going to the conferences as a way to meet people and kind of get to know a field and then find your way into a company.
So I think that's pretty cool.
So that's all we have here from New Orleans and the next one, oh no, I'm going to be in Japan, going to be in South Africa, and I'm going to be in Montreal in the next couple of months.
So I hope to see you there.
Bye PB.
Bye bye.
That was PB Garrett, the CIO of George Washington University, walking by in the background, so cheers, and a friend of mine.
So cheers from New Orleans.