Liz Fong - Creating the SQL Standards7m.
And there were products that are coming growing from wild.
And then we realize that hey, I want to buy a product, what kind of a feature do I need?
One of the things that I have done is to feature analysis.
So we have about half a dozen of product, and the standardization are really building a consensus.
We brought from a matured technology that are ready to be standardized where people say do I buy IBM or do I buy Oracle, or shall I buy a cheaper one, this kind of a decision started emerging.
And selection of a how many variety of application you can build on top of a software foundation, what I call database management system, is too varied.
And so you want to have some sort of a standard so that your application can work on different platform.
We work with files and we call it the file system.
The files were hierarchical, there were the IMS, the IBM information management system which industry structure.
And the debate was going on whether there should be a tree or a network or flat file, and we are still debating whether the data have self-describing tag.
And later on we known it as metadata, and now people call it the schema.
So the database system study group come up with a reference model or a specification for a minimal functionality of a database management system.
In order to be a database management system, you want to be able to store data, retrieve data, modify data, organized data, delete, manipulate data, and it becomes a spec.
And during that time, we initiated a birth of ANSI group, is now called inside INCITS.
The ANSI is now American National Standards Group, and it's called the X3H2 of which the Dawn Deutsch and people like Land Gallagher all participated in that.
That group is called the Data Management Language.
In order to standardize anything, you realize that you can have a lot of light bulb, for example, you can have red light bulb, white light bulb.
The only thing you want to standardize is when you want to talk to another person communication interface or area where both of us have to understand a common vocabulary or whatever.
So the standard, the only standardization of a software system is not the capability, but the language.
And relational database at that time was IBM Chris Sate, and he's talking about normalization.
He started talking about flat file, and he called it a table, and it's a very easy concept that everybody understand.
.
So in order to retrieve the table you say select from a column such as such, from a table of employee, and there was a birth of a simple query language.
Testing part is also very important aspect of when you adopt the standard you want to certify that the product conform to such and such version of ISO standard, the JTC 1, whatever it is.
So that gets to be, otherwise your app won't work, your application, let's say you build a student course record.
And no matter you got an Oracle, you got a Sybase or Microsoft SQL, you want your application to work, no matter what.
And that's what the marketplace wanted to go.
The user of course Oracle or Microsoft, buy my product, the Oracle will say buy my product.
And in the procurement you say I want to be compliant with SQL and so you have to have the conformance testing certificate, and we have the NVLAP.
It's a laboratory that certified and give you a validated product list.
Here are the list of products that has been validated that they conform to it and you can buy from that list.
But there is a requirement, this is strictly user, you're buying because you're paying the money not us.
Timing is everything, you can't standardize a thing too early or you drive a lot of innovative concept away, because people say hey, there's no way for me to get into your market because you already decided.
And even though it's not very good, I won't get into that business, so will kill Innovation.
And if it is too late, you missed the opportunity, you get too many variety of things coming up, and and the choice is too much.
But of course SQL is one of the success stories that NIST we have.
[MUSIC]