101 What is System Administration?
Welcome to the System Administration course of the IT Support Professional Certificate! In the first week of this course, we will cover the basics of system administration. We'll cover organizational policies, IT infrastructure services, user and hardware provisioning, routine maintenance, troubleshooting, and managing potential issues. By the end of this module, you will understand the roles and responsibilities of a System Administrator. So let's get started!
102 Course Introduction4мин
System administration
The field in IT that’s responsible for maintaining reliable computer systems in a multi-user environment

103 What is Systems Administration?2мин

IT infrastructure encompasses the software, the hardware, network, an services required for an organization to operate in an enterprise IT environment.
Sysadmins
Database administrators

104 Servers Revisited4мин
A sysadmin is responsible for their company's IT services.
Email
File storage
Running a website

Servers
Server
Software or a machine that provides services to other software or machines
Email server
SSH server
Clients
KVM Switch

105 The Cloud3мин
Cloud computing

Data Center
A facility that stores hundreds, if not thousands, of servers
Cost
Dependency

106 Organizational Policies2мин
Should users be allowed to install software?
Should users have complex passwords with certain requirements?
Symbols
Random numbers
Letters
Should users be allowed to view non-work-related websites, like Facebook?
If you hand out a company phone to an employee, should you set a device password?
If you hand out a company phone to an employee, should you set a device password?

107 IT Infrastructure Services1мин
File storage
Email
Web content

108 User and Hardware Provisioning4мин
Provisioning
Hardware lifecycle
Procurement
Deployment
Maintenance
Retirement

109 Routine Maintenance1мин
Batch update

110 Vendors1мин

111 Troubleshooting and Managing Issues3мин

112 In Case of Fire, Break Glass1мин

113 Dion Michelle Obama Story1мин

114 With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility3мин
Avoid using administrator rights for tasks that don't require them.
Respect the privacy of others.
Think before you type.

Plan ahead
Serves as documentation

script
Start-Transcript
recordMyDesktop
With great power comes great responsibility.
Reverting to the previous state is called a rollback.

115 Never Test in Production2мин
Production
The parts of the infrastructure where a certain service is executed and served to its users

Test environment
A virtual machine running the same configuration as the production environment, but isn’t actually serving any users of the service

Secondary or stand-by machine
This machine will be exactly the same as a production machine, but won't receive any traffic from actual users until you enable it to do so 

For even bigger services, when you have lots of servers providing the service, you may want to have canaries.

116 Assessing Risk2мин
In general, the more users your service reaches, the more you'll want to ensure that changes aren't disruptive.

The more important your service is to your company’s operations, the more you’ll work to keep the service up.

117 Fixing Things the Right Way2мин
Reproduction case
Creating a roadmap to retrace the steps that led the user to an unexpected outcome

What steps did you take to get to this point? 
What’s the unexpected or bad result?
What’s the expected result?

Remember: always do this in your test instance, never in production.

After applying your fix, retrace the same steps that took you to the bad experience. If your fix worked, the expected experience should now take place.

118 6 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
119 Navigating Coursera10мин
120 Program Surveys10мин
121 How to Use Discussion Forums10мин
122 Get to Know Your Classmates10мин
123 Supplemental Reading on KVM switch10мин
124 Recording Your Actions10мин
125 3 практических упражнени¤
126 What is System Administration?30мин
127 Systems Administration Tasks30мин
128 What is System Administration?1ч
q1
Broken computers are being eco-recycled by the user. Which stage of the hardware lifecycle does this scenario belong to?
Procurement
Deployment
Maintenance
v Retirement
q2
The machine has to be returned to the vendor for proper recycling. Which stage of the hardware lifecycle does this scenario belong to?

Procurement

Deployment

Maintenance

v Retirement

q3
When a machine is having issues, an IT Support Specialist has to file an RMA, or Return Merchandise Authorization form, with the vendor of the machine. Which stage of the hardware lifecycle does this scenario belong to?

Procurement

Deployment

v Maintenance

Retirement

q4
A laptop gets replaced if there's a hardware issue. Which stage of the hardware lifecycle does this scenario belong to?

v Procurement

Deployment

Maintenance

Retirement

q5
Which type of server hardware is the most space-efficient?

v Tower server

Rack server

KVM switch

Blade server

q6
Which of these terms describe a facility that stores hundreds, if not thousands, of servers?

Data center

KVM switch

SSH server

Web server
q7
What is NOT one of the main stages of the hardware lifecycle?

v Recycling

Deployment

Procurement

Maintenance
q8
What are some important elements of working with vendors as a sysadmin? Check all that apply.

v Scheduling on-site maintenance

Independently approve vendor relationships without management permission

v Procure hardware

v Establishing relationships with vendors

q9
Which is NOT an important troubleshooting step?

Reading logs

v Updating services

Asking questions

Isolate the problem with trial and error

q10
What device is commonly used to connect to and control multiple computers using a single keyboard, mouse, and monitor?

Load Balancer

v KVM switch

DNS server

Managed hub
q11
Who works in the background to make sure a company’s IT infrastructure is always working, and is constantly fighting to prevent IT disasters from happening?

The CEO

The regional manager

v The system administrator (or sysadmin)

The janitor
q12
Which is not a component of a KVM switch?

Monitor

Keyboard

v Printer

Mouse

201 week 2 Network and Infrastructure Services
In the second week of this course, we'll learn about network and infrastructure services. We will cover what IT infrastructure services are and what their role is in system administration. We'll also learn about server operating systems, virtualization, network services, DNS for web services, and how to troubleshoot network services. By the end of this module, you will know the most common IT infrastructure services you'll encounter when handling system administration tasks.
202 What are IT Infrastructure Services?56

203 The Role of IT Infrastructure Services in SysAdmin56

204 Types of IT Infrastructure Services6мин
Physical
Software
Network
Directory

IaaS
Applications
Data
O/S

Virtualization
Servers
Storage

Amazon EC2
Linode
Windows Azure
Google Compute Engine

NaaS
Applications
Data
O/S
Virtualization
Servers
Storage

Networking

Microsoft Office 365
Google G Suite

PaaS
Applications
Data

O/S
Virtualization
Servers
Storage
Networking

Heroku, Windows Azure, Google App Engine.

Windows Active Directory
OpenLDAP

Directory as a Service

205 How do Qwiklabs Work?1мин

SSH
Remote Desktop
Once the lab is finished, Qwiklabs destroys this virtual machine.

206 Heather First Tech Job1мин
207 Server Operating Systems1мин
Server operating systems
Regular operating systems that are optimized for server functionality

208 Virtualization2мин
Dedicated hardware
Virtualized instance

Performance
Cost
Maintenance
Points of failure

209 Remote Access Revisited3мин
OpenSSH
sudo apt-get install openssh-client
sudo apt-get install openssh-server
ssh devan@10O.113.96.31

210 FTP, SFTP, and TFTP3мин
File transfer service
FTP
SFTP
TFTP
Trivial FTP
PXE Boot
Preboot
Execution

211 NTP2мин
Network Time Protocol

212 Network Support Services Revisited1мин
Intranet
An internal network inside a company; accessible if you’re on a company’s network

Proxy server
Acts as an intermediary between a company's network and the Internet

213 DNS1мин
Domain Name System (DNS)
Maps human-understandable names to IP addresses

214 DNS for Web Servers2мин
Domain registrars
GoDaddy.com
BlueHost.com

DNS settings 
IP address
Authoritative DNS servers

215 DNS for Internal Networks3мин
Linux  hosts etc/hosts

BIND 
PowerDNS

216 DHCP2мин
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The two servers then sync up and when DHCP leases out new addresses, DNS updates IP address mappings automatically. 

217 Unable to Resolve a Hostname or Domain Name3мин

ping www.google.com
mslookup www.google.com
sudo vim /etc/hosts

Services are usually configured to start when the machine boots, so that if there's a power outage or a similar event that causes the machine to reboot, you won’t need a system administrator to manually start the service.

218 What do Services Look Like in Action2мин
DNS
DHCP
NTP

Background
Daemons
Services

This means that the program doesn't need to interact with a user through the graphical interface or the command line interface to provide the necessary service.

Configuration files

Services are usually configured to start when the machine boots, so that if there's a power outage or a similar event that causes the machine to reboot, you won’t need a system administrator to manually start the service.

219 Managing Services in Linux4мин
Network Time Protocol (NTP)

service ntp status
sudo date -s "2017-01-01 00:00:00"

date
UTC 2017
sudo service ntp stop date
UTC 2017
sudo service ntp start date
UTC 2018

devan@instance-l:~$ sudo date -s "2017-01-01 00:00:00" Sun Jan 1 00:00:00 UTC 2017

devan@instance-l:~$ date Sun Jan 1 00:00:03 UTC 2017 devan@instance-l:~$ sudo service ntp restart

devan@instance-l:~$

220 Managing Services in Windows3мин
PS C:\Users\devan_sritharan89> Get-Service wuauserv Status	Name	            DisplayName
Running wuauserv	Windows Update
PS C:\Users\devan_sritharan89>
Stop-Service wuauserv
Get_Service wuauserv | Format-List
Start-Service wuauserv
Get_Service wuauserv | Format-List

221 Configuring Services in Linux4мин
The configuration files for the installed services are located in the /etc directory.

vsftpd
service vsftpd status

An ftp client program that allows us to connect to an ftp server
/etc/vsftpd.conf

Reload
The service re-reads the configuration without having to stop and start

222 Configuring Services in Windows4мин
Stop
Restart 
Modify configuration
Reload

223 Configuring DNS with Dnsmasq6мин
dnsmasq
A program that provides DNS, DHCP, TFTP and PXE services in a simple package

sudo apt install dnsmasq
dig www.example.com $localhost
sudo service dnsmasq stop
sudo dnsmasq -d -q

cat myhosts.txt 192.168.1.2 helium.local
192.168.1.7	nitrogen.local
192.168.1.8	oxygen.local

sudo dnsmasq -d -q -H myhosts.txt

dig oxygen.local $localhost

224 Configuring DHCP with Dnsmasq7мин
eth_srv
ip address show eth_srv

eth_cli

cat dhcp.conf
sudo dnsmasq -d -q -C dhcp.conf
sudo dhclient -i eth_cli -v
ip address show eth_cli

dig @localhost instance-1.example

225 6 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
226 Supplemental Reading for IT Infrastructure Services10мин
227 Supplemental Reading for Server Operating Systems10мин
228 Supplemental Reading for Remote Access and SSH10мин
229 Supplemental Reading for FTP Clients10мин
230 Supplemental Reading for BIND/PowerDNS10мин
231 Supplemental Reading for DNS and DHCP10мин
232 7 практических упражнений
233 Intro to IT Infrastructure Services30мин
234 Physical Infrastructure Services30мин
235 Network Services30мин
236 Network Services40мин
237 Qwiklabs: Service Management in Linux
238 Qwiklabs: Service Management in Windows
239 Qwiklabs: Getting familiar with DNS and DHCP



301 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 3 Software and Platform Services
In the third week of this course, we'll explore software and platform services. We'll cover what types of software and platform services you may encounter in a tech role and how to manage them. We'll learn how to configure email services, security services, file services, print services, and platform services. We'll explore ways to troubleshoot platform services and common issues to look out for. By the end of this module, you'll understand how to setup and manage the IT infrastructure services to help a business stay productive, keep information secure, and deliver applications to its users.
302 Module Introduction1мин
Software services
Services that employees use that allow them to do their daily job functions

Platform services
Provide a platform for developers to code, build and manage software applications

303 Configuring Communication Services2мин
Communication services
Security services
User productivity services

Internet Chat Relay
IRC

Paid-for options
Open IM protocols

XMPP
Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol

304 Configuring Email Services3мин
devan@example.com
Remember that the A record is used for hostnames, but for email servers, we use MX for the mail exchange record.
POP3
IMAP
SMTP

305 Configuring User Productivity Services2мин
When considering software licenses, its important to review the terms and agreements.

306 Configuring Security Services3мин
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)
The secure version of HTTP, which makes sure the communication your web browser has with the website is secured through encryption

TLS
Transport Layer Security

SSL
Secure Socket Layer

SSL v3.0 ~ TLSv1.0

Certificate Authority
Request Certificate

307 Heather Managing Self Doubt1мин

308 What are file services?1мин

309 Network File Storage3мин
FAT32

Network File System (NFS)
A protocol that enables files to be shared over a network

Samba
(Windows)
SMB
(protocol)

Network-attached storage
NAS

310 Mobile Synchronization3мин

311 Configuring Print Services3мин
CUPS
Common UNIX Printing System

312 Web Servers Revisited4мин
Web server
Stores and serves content to clients through the Internet
sudo apt-get Install apache2 -y
127.0.0.1
localhost

313 What is a database server?1мин
Databases
Allow us to store, query, filter, and manage large amounts of data
MySQL
PostgresSQL

Database Administrators

314 Is the website down?4мин
HTTP status codes
HTTP status codes are codes or numbers that indicate some sort of error or info messages that occurred when trying to access a web resource.

A 404 error indicates that the URL you entered doesn’t point to anything
HTTP status codes that start with 4xx indicate an issue on the client-side.

The other common HTTP status codes you might see start with 5xx. These errors indicate an issue on the server-side.

HTTP status codes tell us more than just errors. They can also tell us when our request is successful, which is denoted by the codes that begin with 2xx.

315 Cloud Concepts3мин
Solid State Drive (SSD)
Software as a Service (SaaS)
The software is already pre-configured and the user isn’t deeply involved in the cloud configuration
Infrastructure as a Service (laaS)
You’re hosting your own services in the cloud. You need to decide how you want the infrastructure to look, depending on what you want to run on it

Regions
A geographical location containing number of data centers
Zone
If one of them fails for some reason, the others are still available and services can migrated without visibly affecting users.
Public Private Hybrid

Cloud services provided to you by a third party
Private Cloud
When your company owns the services and the rest of your infrastructure - whether on-site or in a remote data center

Hybrid Cloud
A mixture of both public and private clouds

316 Typical Cloud Infrastructure Setups1мин
Load Balancer
Ensures that each VM receives a balanced number of queries

Autoscaling
It allows the service to increase or reduce capacity as needed, while the service owner only pays for the cost of the machines that are in use at any given time
Monitoring

317 When and How to Choose Cloud2мин

Most cloud providers offer free trials, so it’s a good idea to test that out to see if they meet your needs, and to check how well your company’s infrastructure integrates with the cloud providers.

318 10 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
319 Supplemental Reading for Chat Communication Services10мин
320 Supplemental Reading for Email Services10мин
321 Supplemental Reading for File Services10мин
322 Supplemental Reading for Network File Storage10мин
323 Supplemental Readings for Mobile Synchronization10мин
324 Supplemental Reading for Print Services25мин
325 Supplemental Reading for Web Servers (Revisited)10мин
326 Supplemental Reading for Database Admin Jobs10мин
327 Supplemental Reading for Troubleshooting with Developer Tools10мин
328 Managing Cloud Resources10мин
329 5 практических упражнений
330 Software Services30мин
331 File, Print, and Platform Services30мин
332 Qwiklabs: Managing websites with Apache2
333 Troubleshooting Platform Services30мин
334 Software and Platform Services35мин




401 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 4 Directory Services
In the fourth week of this course, we'll learn about directory services. Specifically, we'll cover how two of the most popular directory services, Active Directory and OpenLDAP, work in action. We'll explore the concept of centralized management and how this can help SysAdmins maintain and support all the different parts of an IT infrastructure. By the end of this module, you will know how to add users, passwords, and use group policies in Active Directory and OpenLDAP.
402 Module Introduction50

403 What is a directory server?4мин
Directory Server
Contains a lookup service that provides mapping between network resources and their network addresses

Replication
The stored directory data can be copied and distributed across a number of physically distributed servers, but still appear as one, unified datastore for querying and administrating

Directory services
Useful for organizing data and making it searchable for an organization

Organizational Units
OUs
Setup Configuration Maintenance

404 Implementing Directory Services2мин
Directory Access Protocol (DAP)
Directory System Protocol (DSP)
Directory Information Shadowing Protocol (DISP)
Directory Operational Bindings Management Protocol (DOP)

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
LDAP

Active Directory
AD

OpenLDAP

405 What is centralized management?4мин
Centralized management
A central service that provides instructions to all of the different parts of my IT infrastructure

Directory services provide centralized authentication, authorization, and accounting, also known as AAA.
Role-based Access Control
RBAC
Configuration management
Chef Puppet SCCM  

406 What is LDAP?1мин
LDAP
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
Used to access information in directory services like over a network
Active Directory
OpenLDAP
dn: CN=Devan Sri-Tharan,OU=Sysadmin,DC=example,DC=com
dn: CN=Devan Sri-Tharan,OU=Sysadmin,DC=example,DC=com
dn: CN=Devan Sri-Tharan,OU=Sysadmin,DC=example,DC=com
Distinguished name
Common name of the object
Organizational unit such as a group
Domain component

407 What is LDAP Authentication?3мин
Bind operation
Anonymous
Simple
SASL
Simple Authentication & Security Layer
SASL authentication
Kerberos
A network authentication protocol that’s used to authenticate user identity, secure the transfer of user credentials, and more

408 Heather Overcoming Obstacles1мин
409 What is Active Directory?6мин
Active Directory (AD)
The native directory service for Microsoft Windows
Group Policy Objects
GPOs
Active Directory Administrative Center
ADAC
Containers
Organizational unit OU
Forest
Domain Controllers
Service discovery
Read-write replicas
Flexible Single-Master Operations
FSMO
Computer account

410 Managing Active Directory3мин
Delegation

411 Managing Active Directory Users and Groups11мин
Security Account Manager   
SAM
Security group
Distribution group
Domain Local
Global
Universal
Security principal
Parent group

412 Managing Active Directory User Passwords4мин
One-way cryptographic hash
If there's more than one person who can authenticate using the same username and password, then auditing becomes difficult or even impossible.
Reset
Encrypting File System
EFS

413 Joining an Active Directory Domain4мин
Joined or bound
Workgroup computer
Add-Computer -DomainName 'example.com' -Server del
-Restart
Functional levels
Get-AdForest
Get-AdDomain

414 What is Group Policy?4мин
Group Policy Object
GPO

Group Policy Object
A set of policies and preferences that can be applied to a group of objects in directory

Linked
When you link a GPO, all of the computers or users under that domain, site, or OU will have that policy applied.

Security filtering
WMI Filters
A Group Policy Object can contain computer configuration, user configuration, or both.
Policies
Settings that are reapplied every few minutes, and aren’t meant to be changed even by the local administrators
Group policy preferences
Settings that, in many cases, are meant to be a template for settings
Windows Registry
A hierarchical database of settings that Windows, and many Windows applications, use for storing configuration data

415 Group Policy Creation and Editing13мин
Group
Policy
Management
Console

GPMC
Windows Management Instrumentation
WMI
Group Policy Settings Reference
Change management
Import
Advanced Group Jolicy Management
AGPM

IT Support Professional Certificate
System Administration and IT Infrastructure Services
Active Directory
Group Policy Inheritance and Precedenc

416 Group Policy Inheritance and Precedence8мин
When a computer is processing the Group Policy Objects that apply to it, all of these policies will be applied in precedence rules.
Resultant set of policy
RSOP
RSOP report

417 Group Policy Troubleshooting13мин
One of the most common issues you might encounter is when a user isn't able to login to their computer, or isn’t able to authenticate to the Active Directory domain.
DNS records
SRV records
The SRV records that we’re interested in are _ldap._tcp.dc._msdcs.DOMAIN.NAME, where DOMAIN.NAME is the DNS name of our domain.

Resolve-DNSName -Type SRV -Name _ldap._tcp.dc._msdcs.example.com

w32tm /resync
A common issue that you might have to troubleshoot is when a GPO-defined policy or preference fails to apply to a computer.
Fast Logon Optimization
qpupdate /force
gpupdate/force /sync
Replication failure
$env:LOGONSERVER
echo %LOGONSERVER%
gpresult /R
gpresult /H FILENAME.html
WMI filter

418 Mobile Device Management (MDM)1мин
Profiles
Policies
A factory reset that you can trigger from your central MDM, rather than having to do it in person on the device
Enterprise mobility management
EMM

419 What is OpenLDAP?4мин
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
LDAP Data Interchange Format
LDIF
sudo apt-get install slapd Idap-utils
sudo dpkg-reconfigure slapd
MDB

420 Managing OpenLDAP3мин
phpLDAPadmin
LDIF files

dn: uid=cindy,ou=Engineering,dc=example,dc=com objectClass: inetOrgPerson

description: Cindy works in the Engineering department, cn: Cindy uid: cindy

ldapadd
Takes the input of an LDIF file and adds the context of the files
ldapmodify
Modifies an existing object
ldapdelete
Will remove the object LDIF file refers to

421 11 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
422 Supplemental Reading for Centralized Management10мин
423 Supplemental Reading for LDAP10мин
424 Supplemental Reading for Kerberos10мин
425 Supplemental Reading for Active Directory10мин
426 Supplemental Reading for Group Security Principles10мин
427 Supplemental Reading for EFS Features10мин
428 Supplemental Reading for DFL & FFL10мин
429 Supplemental Reading for Group Policy Troubleshooting10мин
430 Supplemental Readings for Mobile Device Management (MDM)10мин
431 Supplemental Reading for OpenLDAP10мин
432 Supplemental Reading for Managing OpenLDAP10мин
433 5 практических упражнений
434 Introduction to Directory Services30мин
435 Qwiklabs: Using Active Directory
436 Centralized Management and LDAP30мин
437 Active Directory30мин
438 Directory Services50мин
q1
What is Active Directory? Check all that apply. 
An open-source directory service
-A Windows-only implementation of a directory service
v Microsoft's implementation of a directory service
?An LDAP-compatible directory service
q2
How is an Organizational Unit different from a normal container? 
It's not; it's just a different name for a container
It can hold other objects
-It can only hold other containers 
v It can hold additional containers
q3
When you create an Active Directory domain, what's the name of the default user account? 
Superuser
Root
Username
v Administrator
q4
Question 4
True or false: Machines in the Domain Controllers group are also members of the Domain Computers group.
True
v False
q5
In what way are security groups different from distribution groups?  
They're the exact same thing.
Security groups are used for computers, while distribution groups are used for users.
Security groups are used for users, while distribution groups are used for computers.
v Security groups can be used to provide access to resources, while distribution groups are only used for email communication.
q6
What's the difference between changing a password and resetting a password? 
v Changing a password requires the previous password.
Changing a password does not require the previous password.
Resetting a password locks the account.
They're the same.
q7
Question 7
True or false: Joining a computer to Active Directory involves joining the computer to a workgroup.
True
v False
q8
Joining a computer to an AD domain provides which of the following advantages? Check all that apply.
v Centralized authentication
More detailed logging
v Centralized management with GPOs
Better performance
q9
What are Group Policy Objects? 
Special types of containers
Special types of computers groups
Special types of user groups
v Settings for computers and user accounts in AD
q10
What's the difference between a policy and a preference? 
They're the exact same thing.
A policy is used to set a preference.
v A policy is enforced by AD, while a preference can be modified by a local user.
A policy can be modified by a local user, while a preference is enforced by AD.
q11
Question 11
With a brand new AD domain, what do you need to change before you can target groups of users and machines with GPOs? 
Nothing; the default configuration is good to go.
v You need to place users and computers into new OUs.
You need to create an administrator account.
You need to rename the default groups.
q12
Select the right order of enforcement of GPOs: 
v Site --> Domain --> OU
OU --> Domain --> Site 
Domain --> Site --> OU 
Site --> OU --> Domain
q13
What can we use to determine what policies will be applied for a given machine? 
gpupdate
A control panel 
A test domain 
v An RSOP report
q14
How does a client discover the address of a domain controller? 
-It's pushed via an AD GPO. 
It sends a broadcast to the local network. 
?It makes a DNS query, asking for the SRV record for the domain. 
-It's provided via DHCP.
q15
Which of the following could prevent you from logging into a domain-joined computer? Check all that apply.  
v You're unable to reach the domain controller. 
Your computer is connected to Wifi. 
v The user account is locked. 
v The are time and date are incorrect.
q21
How are things organized in a directory server?

vv By a hierarchical model of objects and containers

By a series of nested groups

By a flat text file

By a relational database structure
q22
When there are conflicting GPOs, what's the order in which they're evaluated and applied?

vv Site, Domain, OU

Site, OU, Domain

OU, Domain, Site

OU, Site, Domain
q23
Instead of assigning access for each user account individually, ________ is a more efficient and easier-to-manage approach.

Centralized Authentication

vv Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

Active Directory

LDAP
q24
Directory services store information in a heirarchical structure. Which statements about Organizational Units (OUs) of a directory service hierarchy are true? Check all that apply.

? Specific files within an OU, or container, are called "objects."

Parent OUs inherit characteristics of their sub-members.

v Changes can be made to one sub-OU without affecting other sub-OUs within the same parent.

v Sub-member OUs inherit the characteristics of their parent OU.
q25
What are examples of Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) directory server software? Check all that apply.

ADUC

v Microsoft's Active Directory

v OpenLDAP

RDP
q26
v Which of these are common ways to authenticate LDAP directory queries? Check all that apply.

v SASL Authentication

v Simple

Private
q27
Which of these statements are true about managing through Active Directory? Check all that apply.

v Domain Local, Global, and Universal are examples of group scopes.


Distribution groups can be used to assign permission to resources.

v ADAC uses PowerShell.

? The default group's Domain Users and Domain Admins are security groups.
q28
What is the difference between a group policy and a group policy preference?

?Policies are reapplied every 90 minutes, and preferences are a settings template.

Preferences are reapplied every 90 minutes, and policies are more of a settings template.

-v A preference is editable only by admins, but anyone can edit a policy.

-v A policy is editable only by admins, but anyone can edit a group policy preference.
"What is Group Policy?"
q29
You'd like to change the minimum password length policy in the Default Domain Policy group policy preference (GPO). What's the best way to go about doing this?

Manually edit config files in SYSVOL

Edit the Windows Registry to change group policy settings

vv Open the Group Policy Management Console by running gpmc.msc from the CLI

Open ADAC and edit policy settings there
q30
You're trying to remove an organizational unit (OU) that an LDAP Data Interchange Format (LDIF) file refers to. Which Command Line Interface (CLI) command would you use?

v ldapdelete

ldapadd

ldapsearch

ldapmodify

q31
Which component of an LDAP entry contains the unique entry name?

Common name

Organizational unit

vv Distinguished name
q32
Which is NOT an advantage of replication of data in terms of directory services?

It provides redundancy for your data.

v It allows you to manage user accounts locally.

It decreases latency when you access the directory service.

It allows flexibility, allowing you to easily create new object types as your needs change.
q33
A directory service is being installed on an exclusively Windows network. Which directory service software would be appropriate to install?

vv Active Directory

DISP

OpenLDAP

DSP
q34
Juan, a network user, sends an email to you, the IT admin of the network, stating that his account is locked because he has lost his password. Select all appropriate steps in helping Juan resolve his situation. Check all that apply.

v We need to check the "User must change password at next logon" box so a new password can be created at the next logon.

v Make sure the password reset is authorized by verifying that Juan is who he says he is.

v Issue a temporary password.

Ask Juan questions to help him remember his password.
q35
Which of these statements about Active Directory (AD) are true? Check all that apply.

v AD is used as a central repository of group policy objects, or GPOs.

AD includes a tool called the Active Directory Authentication Center, or ADAC.

AD is incompatible with Linux, OS X, and other non-Windows hosts.

v AD can "speak" LDAP.

q36
Which of these are common reasons a group policy doesn't take effect correctly? Check all that apply.

v Fast Logon Optimization may delay GPO changes from taking effect.

Replication failure may occur.

The GPO may be linked to the OU that contains the computer.

v Kerberos may have issues with the UTC time on the clock.

q37
To manage OpenLDAP policies over Command Line Interface (CLI), a certain type of file is needed. What is this type of file called?

LDAP config files

TXT files

ADL files

v LDIF files
q38
When you log into a website that uses a directory service, what command authenticates your username and password?

v Bind

Modify

Add

Remove
q39
In order to authenticate user accounts against AD, what must be done to the computer first?

-Enable the administrator account

Configure remote logging

Configure the firewall

Join it to the domain
q40
Which of these statements are true about Domain Controllers (DCs)? Check all that apply.

- Changes that are safe to be made by multiple Domain Controllers at once are tasked by granting them Flexible Single-Master Operations.


You should always use your Domain Admin or Enterprise Admin for day-to-day use.

Delegation can be used in Active Directory.

The default Organizational Unit (OU) called Domain Controllers contains all Domain Controllers in the domain.
"Managing Active Directory"
q41
What would you use if you wanted to set a default wallpaper background for all machines in your company, but still wanted users to be able to set their own wallpaper?

A policy

v A preference
q42
A client discovers the address of a domain controller by making a DNS query for which record?

A record

AAAA record

v SRV record

TXT record
q43
A Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) entry reads as follows: dn: CN=John Smith ,OU=Sysadmin,DC=jsmith,DC=com. What is the common name of this entry?

jsmith

v John Smith

Sysadmin

CN=John Smith ,OU=Sysadmin,DC=jsmith,DC=com
q44
Which of these statements about Active Directory (AD) are true? Check all that apply.

AD includes a tool called the Active Directory Authentication Center, or ADAC.

v AD is used as a central repository of group policy objects, or GPOs.

AD is incompatible with Linux, OS X, and other non-Windows hosts.

v AD can "speak" LDAP.
q45
The following command is typed into PowerShell: Add-Computer -DomainName 'mywebsite.com' -Server 'dc2'. What does this command do?

Adds a computer to a workgroup

Changes the computers name in the ADAC

v Joins a computer to the domain mywebsite.com using Domain Controller 2

Tells us the functional level of the current version of AD
q46
A particular computer on your network is a member of several GPOs. GPO-A has precedence set to 1. GPO-B has precedence set to 2, and GPO-C has precedence set to 3. According to the given levels of precedence, what will be the resultant set of policy (RSOP) for this machine?

The computer will default to local policy due to the confusion.

v GPO-A will take precedence and overwrite any conflicting settings.

GPO-C will take precedence and overwrite any conflicting settings.

GPO-B will take precedence and overwrite any conflicting settings.
q47
To manage OpenLDAP policies over Command Line Interface (CLI), a certain type of file is needed. What is this type of file called?

LDAP config files

LDIF files

ADL files

TXT files
q48
What roles does a directory server play in centralized management? Check all that apply.

Confidentiality

v Centralized authentication

v Authorization

v Accounting
q49
-In Active Directory, a Domain Controller functions as which of the following? Check all that apply.

A DNS server

A container

v A Kerberos authentication server

A server that holds a replica of the Active Directory database
q50
Which of these are advantages of centralized management using directory services? Check all that apply.

v Role-based Access Control (RBAC) can organize user groups centrally.

v Configuration management is centralized.

Configuration can take place at each device.

v Access and authorization are managed in one place.

501 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 5 Data Recovery & Backups
In the fifth week of this course, we'll learn about data recovery and backups. In any tech role, it's important to know how to backup and recover data -- it's even more important for system administration. We will also learn about common corporate practices like designing a disaster recovery plan and writing post-mortem documentation. By the end of this module, you'll know the tradeoffs between on-site and off-site backups, understand the value and importance of backup and recovery testing, know different options for data backup (as well as the risks) and understand the purpose and contents of a disaster recovery plan.
502 What is Data Recovery?3мин
Data recovery
The process of trying to restore data after an unexpected event that results in data loss or corruption

When an unexpected event occurs, your main objective is to resume normal operations as soon as possible, while minimizing the disruption to business functions.

The best way to be prepared for a data-loss event is to have a well-thought-out disaster plan and procedure in place.

Disaster plans should involve making regular backups of any and all critical data that’s necessary for your ongoing business processes.

Post-mortem

A post-mortem is a way for you to document any problems you discovered along the way, and most importantly, the ways you fixed them so you can make sure they don't happen again.

503 Backing Up Your Data3мин

504 Backup Solutions3мин

505 Job transition35
rsync
A file transfer utility thats designed to efficiently transfer and synchronize files between locations or computers

Time Machine

Backup and Restore

506 Testing Backups2мин

Restoration procedures
Should be documented and accessible that anyone with the right access can restore operations when needed

Disaster recovery testing

507 Types of Backup5мин
Ways to Perform Regular Backups
Full backup
Ways to Perform Regular Backups
Differential backup
It's a good practice to perform infrequent full backups, while also doing more frequent differential backups.
Ways to Perform Regular Backups
Regular incremental backups
File compression
Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)
A method of taking multiple physical disks and combining them into one large virtual disk		

508 User Backups1мин
Dropbox
Apple iCIoud
Google Drive

509 What's a Disaster Recovery Plan?5мин
Disaster recovery plan
A collection of documented procedures and plans on how to react and handle an emergency or disaster scenario, from the operational perspective

Preventive measures
Any procedures or systems in place that will proactively minimize the impact of a disaster

Detection measures
Meant to alert you and your team that disaster has occurred that can impact operations

Environmental Sensors
Flood Sensors
Temp and Humidity Sensors
Evacuation Procedures

Corrective or recovery measures
Those enacted after a disaster has occurred

Single point of failure

510 Designing a Disaster Recovery Plan6мин
Designing a Disaster Recovery Plan
Perform Risk Assessment

Risk assessment
Allows you to prioritize certain aspects of the organizations that are more at risk if there’s an unforeseen event

Perform Risk Assessment
Determine Backup and Recovery Systems Determine Detection & Alert Measures
Determine recovery measures

511 What's a post-mortem?2мин
We create a post-mortem after an incident, an outage, or some event when something goes wrong, or at the end of a project to analyze how it went.

512 Writing a Post-Mortem4мин

Brief Summary
What the incident was 
How long it lasted 
What the impact was 
How it was fixed

Detailed Timeline
Root Cause
 What can be learned?
Resolution and Recovery Efforts
Actions to Avoid Same Scenario

Resolution and Recovery Efforts

Actions to Avoid Same Scenario

513 Interview Role Play: Sys Admin2мин
Asking follow-up questions
Defining terms


514 3 материала дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
515 Supplemental Reading for GitLabs Data Recovery10мин
516 Supplemental Reading for Backup Solutions10мин
517 Supplemental Reading for RAID Levels10мин
518 4 практических упражнени¤
519 Planning for Data Recovery30мин
520 Disaster Recovery Plans30мин
521 Post-Mortems30мин
522 Data Recovery & Backups50мин



601 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 6 Final Project
Congratulations, you've made it to the final week in the course! The last week of this course is dedicated to the final project. For the final project, you will apply all the skills you've learned in this course by providing systems administration consultation. You will assess the IT infrastructure of three fictitious (but very real-life based!) companies and provide recommendations and advice about how to support their IT infrastructure. By the end of this project, you will demonstrate the skills and problem-solving techniques of a SysAdmin. Good luck!
602 Final Project Introduction2мин
603 Alex passion & success1мин
604 Congratulations!12
605 1 практическое упражнение
606 System Administration Consultation