101 Week 1 Understanding Security Threats
Welcome to the IT Security course of the IT Support Professional Certificate! In the first week of this course, we will cover the basics of security in an IT environment. We will learn how to define and recognize security risks, vulnerabilities and threats. We'll identify the most common security attacks in an organization and understand how security revolves around the "CIA" principle. By the end of this module, you will know the types of malicious software, network attacks, client-side attacks, and the essential security terms you'll see in the workplace.
102 Course Introduction5мин
103 The CIA Triad2мин
CIA Confidentiality Integrity Availability

Confidentiality
Keeping things hidden
not accessible by unwanted parties

Integrity
Keeping our data accurate and untampered with

Availability
The information we have is readily accessible to those people that should have it

104 Essential Security Terms4мин
Risk
The possibility of suffering a loss event of an attack on the system

Vulnerability
A flaw in a system that could be exploited to compromise the system

O-day vulnerability (zero day)
A vulnerability that is not known to the software developer or vendor, but is known to an attacker

Exploit
Software that is used to take advantage of a security bug or vulnerability
An exploit takes advantage of a vulnerability to run arbitrary code or gain access.
Threat
The possibility of danger that could exploit a vulnerability
Hacker
Someone who attempts to break into exploit a system
Attack
An actual attempt at causing harm to system

virus worm	adware spyware trojan rootkit backdoor botnet

105 Malicious Software5мин
Malware
A type of malicious software that can be used to obtain your sensitive information, or delete or modify files

Viruses
replicates itself on these files, does the malicious work it's intended to do

Worms
can live on their own

Viruses and Worms
They're self-replicating and self-propagating.

Adware
Software that displays advertisements and collects data

Trojan
Malware that disguises itself as one thing but does something else

Spyware
A type of malware that’s meant to spy you

Keylogger
A common type of spyware that's used to record every keystroke you make

Ransomware
A type of attack that holds your data or system hostage until you pay some sort of ransom

106 Malware Continued2мин
Major types of Malware

Malware

Viruses

Worms

Adware

Spyware

Ransomware
---
Bots

Botnets
Designed to utilize the power of the internet-connected machines to perform some distributed function

Backdoor
A way to get into a system if the other methods to get in the system aren’t allowed

Root kit
A collection of software or tools that Admin would use

Logic bomb
A type of malware that’s intentionally installed

107 Network Attacks3мин
DNS Cache Poisoning attack

Man-in-the-middle attack

Rogue AP
An access point that is installed network without the network administrator’s knowledge

Evil twin

108 Denial-of-Service3мин
Denial-of-service (DoS) attack
An attack that tries to prevent access to a service for legitimate users by overwhelming the network or server

POD
Ping of death

Ping flood

SYN flood

Half-open attacks

Distributed
denial-of-service attack (DDoS)
A DoS attack using multiple systems

109 Client-Side Attacks2мин
Injection attacks

Cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks
A type of injection attack where the attacker can insert malicious code and target the user of the service

SQL injection attack

110 Password Attacks2мин
Password attacks
Utilize software like password-crackers that try and guess your password

Brute force attack

Dictionary attack

sandwich
s@nDwh1ch

111 Deceptive Attacks3мин
Social engineering
An attack method that relies heavily interactions with humans instead of computers

Phishing attack
login password known

Spear phishing

Spoofing
A source masquerading around something else

Baiting

Tailgating
Gaining access into a restricted area or building by following a real employee in

112 7 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
113 Navigating Coursera10мин
114 Program Surveys10мин
115 How to Use Discussion Forums10мин
116 Get to Know Your Classmates10мин
117 Supplemental Reading for Malicious Software10мин
118 Supplemental Reading for Network Attacks10мин
119 Supplemental Reading for DDoS Attacks10мин
120 4 практических упражнени¤
121 Malicious Software30мин
122 Network Attacks30мин
123 Other Attacks30мин
124 Understanding Security Threats1ч 5мин
q1
Which of the following are examples of injection attacks? Check all that apply.

v XSS attack
v SQL injection attack
Social engineering attack
SYN flood attack
q2
When cleaning up a system after a compromise, you should look closely for any ______ that may have been installed by the attacker.

Poisoned DNS caches

-Rogue APs

?Backdoors

-Injection attacks
"Malicious Software"
q3
A SYN flood occurs when the attacker overwhelms a server with ______.

Injection attacks

SYN packets

-ACK packets

Malware

"Network Attacks"

q4
The best defense against injection attacks is to ______.

vv Use input validation

Use antimalware software

Use a firewall

Use strong passwords

q5
Which of these is an example of the integrity principle that can ensure your data is accurate and untampered with?

v Using Encapsulating Security Payload

v Using MACs (Message Authentication Codes)

Keeping a symmetric key secret
Implementing flood guards
"CIA Triad"
q6
What could potentially decrease the availability of security and also test the preparedness of data loss?

Adware

Ransomware

-Keylogger

Spyware

"CIA Triad"
q7
Which of these is true of blackhat and whitehat hackers?

-Blackhats and whitehats shouldn't be trusted.

Blackhats try to find weaknesses, but whitehats don't.

Blackhats work with owners to fix problems. Whitehats are just trying to get into a system.

?Blackhats are malicious. Whitehats exploit weakness to help mitigate threats.
q8
A hacker infected your computer to steal your Internet connection and used your machine's resources to mine Bitcoin. What is the name of this kind of attack?

Ransomware

?A bot

Adware

-Spyware
q9
A hacker stood outside a building and spun up a wireless network without anyone's knowledge. At that point, the hacker was able to gain unauthorized access to a secure corporate network. Which of these is the name of this type of attack?

SYN flood attack

vv A Rogue AP (Access Point) attack

A DNS Cache Poisoning attack

A Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack
q10
Which of these is where a victim connects to a network that the victim thinks is legitimate, but is really an identical network controlled by a hacker to monitor traffic?

DNS Cache Poisoning

vv Evil Twin

A Denial of Service (DoS)

A logic bomb
q11
What is it called if a hacker takes down multiple services very quickly with the help of botnets?

vv Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS)

A SQL injection

Cross-site Scripting (XSS)

A password attack
q12
Which of these is a way to help prevent brute-force attacks? Check all that apply.

Using a precompiled list of common passwords

Password crackers

v Captchas

v Strong passwords
Correct
You nailed it! The best way to prevent a password attack, such as a brute-force attack, is to utilize strong passwords.
q13
An attacker, acting as a postal worker, used social engineering tactics to trick an employee into thinking she was legitimately delivering packages. The attacker was then able to gain physical access to a restricted area by following behind the employee into the building. What type of attack did the attacker perform? Check all that apply.

Spoofing

v Social engineering

Phishing

v Tailgating
q21
A network-based attack where one attacking machine overwhelms a target with traffic is a(n) _______ attack.

Injection

Malware

Brute force password

v Denial of Service
q22

q23
An attack that would allow someone to intercept your data as it's being sent or received is called a(n) _________ attack.

Injection

Denial of Service

vv Man-in-the-middle

SYN flood
q24
What makes a DDoS attack different from a DoS attack? Check all that apply.

A DDoS attack has attack traffic coming from one source.

v A DoS attack has attack traffic coming from one source.

v A DDoS attack has attack traffic coming from many different sources.

A DoS attack has attack traffic coming from many different sources.
q25
Which of these is an example of the integrity principle that can ensure your data is accurate and untampered with?

v Using Encapsulating Security Payload

Keeping a symmetric key secret

v Using MACs (Message Authentication Codes)

Implementing flood guards
q26
If there are cyber threats and vulnerabilities to your system, what does that expose you to? Check all that apply.

The CIA triad

v Attacks

v Exploits

Tailgating
q27
Which of these is a characteristic of Trojan malware?

A Trojan is basically backdoor malware.

A Trojan may get installed without the user’s consent.

A Trojan is the same thing as a rootkit.

v A Trojan infection needs to be installed by the user.
q28
What is it called when a hacker is able to get into a system through a secret entryway in order to maintain remote access to the computer?

Ransomware

vv A backdoor

Adware

A Trojan
q29

q30
What can occur during a ping of death (POD) attack? Check all that apply.

v A buffer overflow

v A Denial-of-Service (DoS)

?Baiting

Remote code execution
q31
What type of attack can a hacker perform that involves injecting malicious code into a website to hijack a session cookie?

Ping flood

A password attack

vv Cross-site Scripting (XSS)

SQL injection
q32
How can you increase the strength of your passwords? Check all that apply.

Use passwords from a precompiled list.

v Incorporate symbols and numbers.

v Exclude dictionary words.

v Use a mix of capital and lowercase letters.

q33
An attacker, acting as a postal worker, used social engineering tactics to trick an employee into thinking she was legitimately delivering packages. The attacker was then able to gain physical access to a restricted area by following behind the employee into the building. What type of attack did the attacker perform? Check all that apply.

v Social engineering

v Tailgating

?Phishing

-Spoofing


201 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 2 Pelcgbybtl (Cryptology)
In the second week of this course, we'll learn about cryptology. We'll explore different types of encryption practices and how they work. We'll show you the most common algorithms used in cryptography and how they've evolved over time. By the end of this module, you'll understand how symmetric encryption, asymmetric encryption, and hashing work; you'll also know how to choose the most appropriate cryptographic method for a scenario you may see in the workplace.
202 Cryptography7мин
Cryptography
Encryption
The act of taking a message, called plaintext, and applying an operation to it, called a cipher, so that you receive a garbled, unreadable message as the output, called ciphertext
Decryption
Substitute

Holly Wyrld
Key
Encryption algorithm
The underlying logic of process thats used to convert the plaintext into ciphertext
Security through obscurity
Kerchoff's principle

Cryptosystem
A collection of algorithms for key generation and encryption and decryption operations that comprise a cryptographic service should remain secure - even if everything about the system is known, except the key

Shannon's maxim
"The enemy knows the system"

The system should remain secure even if your adversary knows exactly what kind of encryption systems you’re employing, as long as your keys remain secure
Cryptology
Cryptanalysis

Frequency analysis
The practice of studying the frequency with which letters appear in a ciphertext

e t a o
th er on an

The practice of hiding information from observers, but not encoding it

203 Symmetric Cryptography5мин
Symmetric-key algorithm

Substitution cipher
An encryption mechanism that replaces parts of your plaintext with ciphertext
e = o  o = y
Holly Wyrld
Caesar Cipher
ROT13
URYYB JBEYQ
R0T8
OLSSV
VSZZC
DVYSK
KCFZR
Takes a stream of input and encrypts the stream one character or one digit at a time, outputting one encrypted character or digit at a time

The cipher takes data in, places it into a bucket or block of data that’s a fixed size, then encodes that entire block as one unit.

Initialization vector

204 Symmetric Encryption Algorithms9мин
DES
Data Encryption Standard
FIPS
Federal Information Processing Standard
Key length
Brute-force attack
NIST
National Institute of Standards & Technology
AES
Advanced Encryption Standard

Because of the large key size, brute-force attacks on AES are only theoretical right now, because the computing power required (or time required using modern technology) exceeds anything feasible today.

An important thing to keep in mind when considering various encryption algorithms is speed and ease of implementation.

RC4 (Rivest Cipher 4)
A symmetric stream cipher that gained widespread adoption because of its simplicity and speed

TLS 1.2 with AES GCM

205 Rob What a Security Engineer Does1мин

206 Asymmetric Cryptography7мин
Asymmetric or public key ciphers
Asymmetric encryption
Public key signatures

Confidentiality
Authenticity
Non-repudiation

MACs
Message Authentication Codes
MAC
A bit of information that allows authentication of a received message, ensuring that the message came from the alleged sender and not a third party
HMAC
Keyed-hash message authentication code
CMACs
Cipher-Based Message Authentication Codes
CBC-MAC
Cipher block chaining message authentication codes

207 Asymmetric Encryption Algorithms5мин
RSA
DSA
Digital Signature Algorithm
Diffie-Hellman
Elliptic curve cryptography
(ECC)
A public-key encryption system that uses the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields to generate secure keys
Both Diffie-Hellmen and DSA have elliptic curve variants, referred to as ECDH and ECDSA, respectively.

208 Hashing3мин
Hashing (or a hash function)
A type of function or operation that takes in an arbitrary data input and maps it to an output of fixed size, called a hash or digest

You feed in any amount of data into a hash function and the resulting output will always be the same size, but the output should be unique to the input, such that two different inputs should never yield the same output.

Hashing can also be used to identify duplicate data sets in databases or archives to speed up searching of tables or to remove duplicate data to save space.

Hashing can also be used to identify duplicate data sets in databases or archives to speed up searching of tables or to remove duplicate data to save space.

Cryptographic hashing is distinctly different from encryption because cryptographic hash functions should be one directional.

The ideal cryptographic hash function should be deterministic, meaning that the same input value should always return the same hash value.

hash collision
The ideal cryptographic hash function should be deterministic, meaning that the same input value should always return the same hash value.
"Hello World" I [hash function] | E49AOOFF
"hello world" I [hash function] | FF1832AE
$ echo 'Hello World' | md5sum e59ff97941044f85df5297e1c302d260
$ echo 'hello world' | md5sum 6f5902ac237024bdd0c176cb93063dc4

209 Hashing Algorithms5мин
MD5
SHA1
SHA1 is part of the Secure Hash Algorithm suite of functions, designed by the NSA, published in 1995.

SSL/TLS
PGP SSH
IPsec

MIC
Message Integrity Check

210 Hashing Algorithms (continued)5мин
Authentication

A successful brute force attack, against even the most secure system imaginable, is a function of attacker time and resources.

Password salt
Additional randomized data that's added into the hashing function to generate a hash that’s unique to the password and salt combination

211 Public Key Infrastructure9мин
PKI
Public key infrastructure

INFO ON PUBLIC KEY 
REGISTERED OWNER
DIGITAL SIGNATURE
CA
The entity that's responsible for storing, issuing, and signing certificates is referred to as CA, or Certificate Authority.
RA
Registration authority

A central repository is needed to securely store and index keys, and a certificate management system of some sort makes managing access to stored certificates and issuance of certificates easier.

SSL/TLS server certificate
Self-signed certificate
SSL/TLS client certificate

As the name implies, these are certificates that are bound to clients and are used to authenticate the client to the server, allowing access control to an SSL/TLS service.

This allows users of these signed applications to verify the signatures and ensure that the application was not tampered with.

Root certificate

A certificate that has no authority as a CA is referred to an end-entity or leaf certificate.

The X.509 standard is what defines the format of digital certificates.

version
What version of the X.509 standard the certificate adheres to

Serial number
A unique identifier for the certificate assigned by the CA which allows the CA to manage and identify individual certificates

Certificate Signature Algorithm
This field indicates what public key algorithm is used for the public key and what hashing algorithm is used to sign the certificate

Issuer Name
This field contains information about the authority that signed the certificate

Validity
This contains two subfields - “Not Before and “Not After” - which define the dates when the certificate is valid for
Subject
This field contains identifying information about the entity the certificate was issued to

Subject Public Key Info
These two subfields define the algorithm of the public key, along with the public key itself

Certificate Signature Algorithm
Same as the Subject Public Key Info field; These two fields must match

Certificate Signature Value
The digital signature data itself

Web of trust

212 Cryptography in Action8мин
HTTPS
The secure version of HTTP, the HyperText Transport Protocol
SSL 3.0
TLS 1.2

-1)	A secure communication line, which means data being transmitted is protected from potential eavesdroppers
-2)	The ability to authenticate both parties communicating, though typically only the server is authenticated by the client
-3)	The integrity of communications, meaning there are checks to ensure that messages aren’t lost or altered in transit

The session key is the shared symmetric encryption key used in TLS sessions to encrypt data being sent back and forth.

Secure Shell (SSH)
A secure network protocol that uses encryption to allow access to a network service over unsecured networks

PGP
Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)
An encryption application that allows authentication of data, along with privacy from third parties, relying upon asymmetric encryption to achieve this

213 Securing Network Traffic6мин
VPN
Virtual private network (VPN)
A mechanism that allows you to remotely connect a host or network to an internal, private network, passing the data over a public channel, like the internet

IPsec

When transport mode is used, only the payload of the IP packet is encrypted, leaving the IP headers untouched.

In tunnel mode, the entire IP packet, header payload and all, is encrypted and encapsulated inside a new IP packet with new headers.

L2TP
Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol

Encapsulating Security Payload

The tunnel is provided by L2TP which permits the passing of unmodified packets from one network to another. The secure channel, on other hand, is provided by IPsec, which provides confidentiality, integrity, and authentication of data being passed.

OpenVPN can operate over either TCP or UDP, typically over port 1194.

214 Cryptographic Hardware6мин
Trusted Platform Module
TPM
Secure gentration of key
Random number generation 
Remote attestation
Data binding and sealing

Remote attestation

Data binding and sealing
Secure Element

TEE
Trusted Execution Environment
FDE
Full disk encryption

PGP
Bitlocker 
Filevault 2 
dm-crypt

Random numbers
Pseudo-random
Entropy pool



215 Rejection36
216 9 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
217 Supplemental Reading for The Future of Cryptanalysis10мин
218 Supplemental Reading for Symmetric Encryptions10мин
219 Supplemental Reading for Asymmetric Encryption Attack10мин
220 Supplemental Reading for SHA1 Attacks10мин
221 Supplemental Reading for the X.509 Standard10мин
222 Supplemental Reading for PGP10мин
223 Supplemental Reading for Securing Network Traffic10мин
224 Supplemental Reading for TPM Attacks10мин
225 Instructions for Accessing Linux and Windows Qwiklabs10мин
226 5 практических упражнений
227 Symmetric Encryption30мин
q2.
Question 1
What are the components that make up a cryptosystem? Check all that apply.
v Decryption algorithms
v Key generation algorithms
v Encryption algorithms
Correct
Great job! A cryptosystem is a collection of algorithms needed to operate an encryption service. This involves generating encryption keys, as well as encryption and decryption operations.
Transmission algorithms
q2.
Question 2
What is steganography?
The practice of encoding messages
The study of languages
The study of stegosauruses
v The practice of hiding messages 
Correct
Yep! Steganography involves hiding messages, but not encoding them.
q3.
Question 3
What makes an encryption algorithm symmetric? 
Different keys used for encryption and decryption
High speed 
The same keys used for encryption and decryption
Very large key sizes
Correct
Awesome! The symmetry of a symmetric algorithm refers to one key being used for both encryption and decryption.
q4.
Question 4
What's the difference between a stream cipher and a block cipher?
There is no difference.
Stream ciphers can't save encrypted data to disk.
Stream ciphers encrypt data as a continuous stream, while block ciphers operate on chunks of data.
Block ciphers are only used for block device encryption.
Correct
You got it! A stream cipher takes data in as a continuous stream, and outputs the ciphertext as a continuous stream, too. A block cipher encrypts the data in chunks, or blocks.
q5.
Question 5
True or false: The smaller the encryption key is, the more secure the encrypted data is.
TRUE
v FALSE
Correct
Nice work! The reverse is true. The larger the key, the more secure the encrypted data will be.

228 Public Key or Asymmetric Encryption30мин
Question 1
Which of the following do asymmetric cryptosystems provide? Check all that apply.
v Confidentiality
Availability
v Non-repudiation
v Authenticity
Correct
Exactly! Confidentiality is provided by the encryption and decryption functionality, while authenticity and non-repudiation are ensured by the signing and verification processes.
Question 2
What advantages do asymmetric algorithms have over symmetric ones? 
They're easier to implement.
v They allow secure communication over insecure channels.
They have very fast performance.
They're more secure.
Correct
Wohoo! By exchanging public keys for encrypting data, asymmetric encryption securely exchanges information over untrusted channels.
Question 3
What's a common application for asymmetric algorithms?
Full disk encryption
Secure password storage
v Secure key exchange
Random number generation
Correct
You nailed it! Asymmetric encryption schemes are perfect for securely exchanging small amounts of data over untrusted networks by exchanging public keys that are used for encrypting data.

229 Hashing30мин
Question 1
How is hashing different from encryption?
It's faster.
It's less secure.
Hashing is meant for large amounts of data, while encryption is meant for small amounts of data.
v Hashing operations are one-directional.
Correct
Great job! Hash functions, by definition, are one-way, meaning that it's not possible to take a hash and recover the input that generated the hash. Encryption, on the other hand, is two-directional, since data can be both encrypted and decrypted.
Question 2
What's a hash collision?
When a hash digest is reversed to recover the original
When two different hashing algorithms produce the same hash
When two different files generate the same hash digest
When two identical files generate different hash digests
Correct
Awesome work! If two different files result in the same hash, this is referred to as a hash collision. Hash collisions aren't awesome, as this would allow an attacker to create a fake file that would pass hash verification.

Question 3
How is a Message Integrity Check (MIC) different from a Message Authentication Code (MAC)?
A MIC is more reliable than a MAC.
A MAC requires a password, while a MIC does not.
v A MIC only hashes the message, while a MAC incorporates a secret key.
They're the same thing.
Correct
That's exactly right! A MIC can be thought of as just a checksum or hash digest of a message, while a MAC uses a shared secret to generate the checksum. This also makes it authenticated, since the other party must also have the same shared secret, preventing a third party from forging the checksum data.
Question 4
How can you defend against brute-force password attacks? Check all that apply.
v Enforce the use of strong passwords.
v Incorporate salts into password hashing.
Store passwords in a rainbow table.
v Run passwords through the hashing function multiple times.
Correct
Correct! A brute-force password attack involves guessing the password. So, having complex and long passwords will make this task much harder and will require more time and resources for the attacker to succeed. Incorporating salts into password hashes will protect against rainbow table attacks, and running passwords through the hashing algorithm lots of times also raises the bar for an attacker, requiring more resources for each password guess.

230 Cryptography Applications30мин
What information does a digital certificate contain? Check all that apply.
v Digital signature
v Identifying information of the certificate owner
v Public key data
Correct
Great job! A digital certificate contains the public key information, along with a digital signature from a CA. It also includes information about the certificate, like the entity that the certificate was issued to.
Private key data
Question 2
Which type of encryption does SSL/TLS use?
Neither
Asymmetric encryption
Symmetric encryption
v Both
Correct
Wohoo! SSL/TLS use asymmetric algorithms to securely exchange information used to derive a symmetric encryption key.
Question 3
What are some of the functions that a Trusted Platform Module can perform? Check all that apply.
v Data binding and sealing
Secure user authentication
v Remote attestation
Correct
You nailed it! A TPM can be used for remote attestation, ensuring that a host is a known good state and hasn't been modified or tampered (from a hardware and a software perspective). TPMs can also seal and bind data to them, encrypting data against the TPM. This also allows it to be decrypted by the TPM, only if the machine is in a good and trusted state.
Malware detection 
231 Week Two Practice Quiz30мин



301 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 3 AAA Security (Not Roadside Assistance)
In the third week of this course, we'll learn about the "three A's" in cybersecurity. No matter what type of tech role you're in, it's important to understand how authentication, authorization, and accounting work within an organization. By the end of this module, you'll be able to choose the most appropriate method of authentication, authorization, and level of access granted for users in an organization.
302 Authentication Best Practices6мин
Identification
The idea of describing an entity uniquely
Authentication
Authorization
"authn" (for authentication)
"authz" (for authorization)
Risk mitigation
ILik3P0n1ez99
Incorporating good password policies into an organization is key to ensuring that employees are securing their accounts with strong passwords.

Length requirements
Character complexity
Dictionary words

303 Multifactor Authentication12мин
MFA
Multifactor authentication
A system where users are authenticated by presenting multiple pieces of information or objects


Something you know 
Password / PIN
Something you have 
ATM / Bank card
Something you are
Biometric ID

Something the user has: Any physical object in the possession of the user, such as a security token (USB stick), a bank card, a key, etc.

Something the user knows: Certain knowledge only known to the user, such as a password, PIN, TAN, etc.

Something the user is: Some physical characteristic of the user (biometrics), such as a fingerprint, eye iris, voice, typing speed, pattern in key press intervals, etc.

Somewhere the user is: Some connection to a specific computing network or using a GPS signal to identify the location.


Physical tokens

OTP
One-time password

Time-based token
TOTP
Network time protocol
NTP
Counter-based tokens

Biometric authentication
The process of using unique physiological characteristics of an individual to identify them

U2F
Universal 2nd Factor

Security keys

304 Certificates3мин
In order to issue client certificates, an organization must setup and maintain CA infrastructure to issue and sign certificates.

Certificate revocation list (CRL)
A signed list published by the CA which defines certificates that have been explicitly revoked


305 LDAP3мин
Authentication LDAP

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
An open, industry-standard protocol for accessing and maintaining directory services

Data information tree

Organizational units
OUs

Distinguished name 
DN
Bind
StartTLS
Search
Add/delete/modify
Unbind

306 RADIUS1мин
Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS)
A protocol that provides AAA services for users on a network
EAP
Extensible Authentication Protocol

307 Kerberos7мин
Kerberos
A network authentication protocol that uses “tickets” to allow entities to prove their identity over potentially insecure channels to provide mutual authentication
AS
Authentication server
Ticket Granting Service
TGS

308 TACACS+1мин
TACACS+
Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus
TACACS+ is primarily used for device administration, authentication, authorization, and accounting.

309 Single Sign-On3мин
Single sign-on (SSO)
An authentication concept that allows users to authenticate once to be granted access to a lot of different services and applications
OpenID

310 Rob Path to IT1мин

311 Authorization and Access Control Methods1мин
Authorization
Pertains to describing what the user account has access to, or doesn't have access to
OAuth

312 Access Control5мин
OAuth
An open standard that allows users to grant third-party websites and applications access to their information without sharing account credentials

OAuth permissions can be used in phishing-style attacks to gain access to accounts, without requiring credentials to be compromised.

313 Access Control List1мин
Access control list (ACL)
A way of defining permissions or authorizations for objects
Access control entries

314 Tracking Usage and Access3мин
Accounting
Keeping records of what resources and services your users accessed, or what they did when they were using your systems
Auditing
TACACS+ is a device access AAA system that manages who has access to your network devices and what they do on them.

315 Rob Important Skills in Security1мин
316 2 материала дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
317 Supplemental Reading for Authentication10мин
318 Supplemental Reading for Authorization10мин
319 3 практических упражнени¤
320 Authentication30мин
How is authentication different from authorization? 
Question 1
v Authentication is verifying an identity; authorization is verifying access to a resource.
They're the same thing.
Authentication is identifying a resource; authorization is verifying access to an identity.
Authentication is verifying access to a resource; authorization is verifying an identity.
Correct
Right on! Authentication is proving that an entity is who they claim to be, while authorization is determining whether or not that entity is permitted to access resources.
Question 2
What are some characteristics of a strong password? Check all that apply, 
Is used across accounts and systems
v Includes numbers and special characters
Contains dictionary words
v Is at least eight characters long
Correct
You got it! A strong password should contain a mix of character types and cases, and should be relatively long -- at least eight characters, but preferably more.
Question 3
In a multi-factor authentication scheme, a password can be thought of as: 
something you have.
something you use.
v something you know.
-something you are. 
Incorrect
Not quite. Biometrics as an additional authentication factor is something you are, while passwords are something you know.
Question 4
What are some drawbacks to using biometrics for authentication? Check all that apply. 
v There are potential privacy concerns.
Biometrics are easy to share.
v Biometric authentication is difficult or impossible to change if compromised.
Biometric authentication is much slower than alternatives.
Correct
That's exactly right! If a biometric characteristic, like your fingerprints, is compromised, your option for changing your "password" is to use a different finger. This makes "password" changes limited. Other biometrics, like iris scans, can't be changed if compromised. If biometric authentication material isn't handled securely, then identifying information about the individual can leak or be stolen.
Question 5
In what way are U2F tokens more secure than OTP generators? 
-They can't be cloned.
They're cheaper.
v They're resistant to phishing attacks.
They're password-protected.
Incorrect
Not quite. Properly designed and implemented U2F tokens and OTP generators are both resistant to device cloning.
Question 6
What elements of a certificate are inspected when a certificate is verified? Check all that apply. 
Certificate key size
v "Not valid after" date
v "Not valid before" date
v Trust of the signatory CA
Correct
Yep! To verify a certificate, the period of validity must be checked, along with the signature of the signing certificate authority, to ensure that it's a trusted one.
Question 7
What is a CRL? 
Caramel Raspberry Lemon
Certified Recursive Listener
Certificate Recording Language
v Certificate Revocation List
Correct
Good job! CRL stands for "Certificate Revocation List." It's a list published by a CA, which contains certificates issued by the CA that are explicitly revoked, or made invalid.
Question 8
What are the names of similar entities that a Directory server organizes entities into? 
Clusters
v Organizational Units
Groups
Trees
Correct
Awesome! Directory servers have organizational units, or OUs, that are used to group similar entities.
Question 9
True or false: The Network Access Server handles the actual authentication in a RADIUS scheme.
True
v False
Incorrect
Not quite. The Network Access Server doesn't handle authentication decisions directly. Instead, it relates authentication messages between the client and the RADIUS server.
Question 10
True or false: Clients authenticate directly against the RADIUS server.
True
v False
Correct
Correct! Clients don't actually interact directly with the RADIUS server; the authentication is relayed via the Network Access Server.
Question 11
What does a Kerberos authentication server issue to a client that successfully authenticates? 
A digital certificate
v A ticket-granting ticket
A master password
An encryption key
Correct
Exactly! Once authenticated, a Kerberos client receives a ticket-granting ticket from the authentication server. This TGT can then be presented to the ticket-granting service in order to be granted access to a resource.
Question 12
What advantages does single sign-on offer? Check all that apply. 
v It reduces the total number of credentials,
v It reduces time spent authenticating.


Correct
You nailed it! SSO allows one set of credentials to be used to access various services across sites. This reduces the total number of credentials that might be otherwise needed. SSO authentication also issues an authentication token after a user authenticates using username and password. This token then automatically authenticates the user until the token expires. So, users don't need to reauthenticate multiple times throughout a work day.
It enforces multifactor authentication.
It provides encrypted authentication.
Question 13
What does OpenID provide? 
Certificate signing
Digital signatures
Cryptographic hashing
v Authentication delegation
Correct
Yep! OpenID allows authentication to be delegated to a third-party authentication service.

-----

Question 1
What role does authorization play? 
v It determines whether or not an entity has access to a resource.
It verifies an entity's identity. 
It verifies passwords. 
It provides strong encryption.
Correct
Awesome! Authorization has to do with what resource a user or account is permitted or not permitted to access.
Question 2
What does OAuth provide? 
Confidentiality
Integrity
v Access delegation
Secure communications
Correct
Wohoo! OAuth is an open authorization protocol that allows account access to be delegated to third parties, without disclosing account credentials directly.
Question 3
How is auditing related to accounting? 
They're not related.
They're the same thing.
Accounting is reviewing records, while auditing is recording access and usage.
v Accounting is recording access and usage, while auditing is reviewing these records.
Correct
That's exactly right! Accounting involves recording resource and network access and usage. Auditing is reviewing these usage records by looking for any anomalies.

321 Authorization and Accounting30мин
322 AAA Security (Not Roadside Assistance)55мин




401 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 4 Securing Your Networks
In the fourth week of this course, we'll learn about secure network architecture. It's important to know how to implement security measures on a network environment, so we'll show you some of the best practices to protect an organization's network. We'll learn about some of the risks of wireless networks and how to mitigate them. We'll also cover ways to monitor network traffic and read packet captures. By the end of this module, you'll understand how VPNs, proxies and reverse proxies work; why 802.1X is a super important for network protection; understand why WPA/WPA2 is better than WEP; and know how to use tcpdump to capture and analyze packets on a network. That's a lot of information, but well worth it for an IT Support Specialist to understand!
402 Network Hardening Best Practices8мин
Network hardening
The process of securing a network by reducing its potential vulnerabilities through configuration changes and taking specific steps

Implicit deny
A network security concept where anything not explicitly permitted or allowed should be denied

Analyzing logs
The practice of collecting logs from different network and sometimes client devices on your network, then performing an automated analysis on them

Logs analysis systems are configured using user-defined rules to match interesting or atypical log entries.

Normalizing log data is an important step, since logs from different devices and systems may not be formatted in a common way.

Correlation analysis
The process of taking log data from different systems and matching events across the systems

Post-fail analysis

Flood guards (Fail2ban)
Provide protection against DoS or Denial of Service attacks
SYN floods
UDP floods


Network separation

403 Network Hardware Hardening9мин

Rogue DHCP server attack
DHCP snooping

ARP poisoning attacks
Dynamic ARP inspection DAI

IP spoofing attacks
IP Source Guard 
 
802.1X
Extensible Authentication Protocol
EAP over LAN
EAPOL
EAP-TLS
An authentication type supported by EAP that uses TLS to provide mutual authentication of both the client and the authenticating server

404 Network Software Hardening5мин
Network software hardening

Firewalls
Proxies
VPNs

VPNs are commonly used to provide secure remote access, and link two networks securely.

Proxies
Proxy server
Reverse proxy

HAProxy
Nginx
Apache web server

405 Joe Personal Obstacle44

406 WEP Encryption and Why You Shouldn't Use It8мин
What do you think the best security option is for securing a WiFi network?
WEP
Wired Equivalent Privacy
No one should be using WEP anymore!

Open System authentication
Shared Key authentication

407 Let's Get Rid of WEP! WPA/WPA214мин
WPA
Wi-Fi Protected Access
WPA
Designed as a short-term replacement that would be compatible with older WEP-enabled hardware with a simple firmware update
TKIP
Temporal Key Integrity Protocol

Under WPA, the pre-shared key is the Wifi password you share with people when they come over and want to use your wireless network.

password-Based Key Derivation Function 2

CCMP
Counter Mode CBC

MAC Protocol

Four-way handshake
PTK
Pairwise Transient Key

PMK
AP nonce Client nonce
AP MAC address
Client MAC address

GTK
GTK - Groupwise Transient Key.

WPA2-Enterprise
WPA2-Personal
WPA2-PSK

PIN entry authentication
NFC or USB
Push-button authentication

Rainbow tables

408 Wireless Hardening3мин
802.1X with EAP-TLS
If 802.1X is too complicated for a company, the next best alternative would be WPA2 with AES/CCMP mode.

A long and complex passphrase that wouldn’t be found in a dictionary would increase the amount of time and resources an attacker would need to break the passphrase.

If your company values security over convenience, you should make sure that WPS isn’t enabled on your APs.

409 Heather Social Engineering1мин
Packet sniffing (packet capture)
The process of intercepting netowrk packets in their entirety for analysis

Promiscuous Mode
A type of computer networking operational mode in which all network data packets can be accessed and viewed by all network adapters operating in this mode

Port mirroring
Allows the switch to take all packets from a specified port, port range, or entire VLAN and mirror the packets to a specified switch port

Monitor mode
Allows us to scan across channels to see all wireless traffic being sent by APs and clients

410 Sniffing the Network5мин

411 Wireshark and tcpdump6мин
Tcpdump
A super popular, lightweight, command-line based utility that you can use to capture and analyze packets
-x
wireshark
http.request.uri matches "q=wireshark
Traffic analysis

Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS)
IDS or IPS systems operate by monitoring network traffic and analyzing it.

IPS can block and drop

Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS)
The detection system would be deployed somewhere on a network where it can monitor traffic for a network segment or subnet.

Port mirroring functionality

Snort
Suricata
Bro NIDS

NIP system
Network Intrusion Prevention System

412 Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems6мин
413 7 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
414 Supplemental Reading for Network Hardening Best Practices10мин
415 Supplemental Reading on IEEE 802.1X10мин
416 Supplementary reading on HAProxy, nginx and Apache HTTP server10мин
417 Supplementary reading for WEP Encryption and Why You Shouldn't Use It10мин
418 Supplementary reading on WiFi Protected Setup (WPS) PIN brute force vulnerability10мин
419 Supplemental Reading for Promiscuous Mode10мин
420 Supplemental reading for Intrusion Detection/Prevention System10мин
421 4 практических упражнени¤
422 Secure Network Architecture30мин
423 Wireless Security30мин
424 Network Monitoring30мин
425 Week Four Practice Quiz30мин




501 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 5 Defense in Depth
In the fifth week of this course, we're going to go more in-depth into security defense. We'll cover ways to implement methods for system hardening, application hardening, and determine the policies for OS security. By the end of this module, you'll know why it's important to disable unnecessary components of a system, learn about host-based firewalls, setup anti-malware protection, implement disk encryption, and configure software patch management and application policies.
502 Intro to Defense in Depth1мин
Defense in depth
The concept of having multiple, overlapping systems of defense to protect IT systems

503 Disabling Unnecessary Components4мин
System Hardening
0-day vulnerabilities
Attack vectors
Attack surfaces

Attack vector
The method or mechanism by which an attacker or malware gains access to a network or system

Attack surface
The sum of all the different attack vectors in a given system

The less complex something is, the less likely there will be undetected flaws.

Another way to keep things simple is to reduce your software deployments.

Telnet access for a managed switch has no business being enabled in a real-world environment.

504 Host-Based Firewall4мин
System Hardening

Host-based firewalls
Protect individual hosts from being compromised when they’re used in untrusted, potentially malicious environments.

A host-based firewall plays a big part in reducing what’s accessible to an outside attacker.

Bastion hosts or networks

If the users of the system have administrator rights, then they have the ability to change firewall rules and configurations.

505 Logging and Auditing7мин
Logging and Auditing

Security information and event management systems
SIEMS

Normalization

Once logs are centralized and standardized, you can write automated alerting based on rules.

SIEM

rsyslog
Splunk Enterprise Security
IBM Security Qradar
RSA Security Analytics

506 Antimalware Protection7мин
Antivirus software will monitor and analyze things, like new files being created or being modified on the system, in order to watch for any behavior that matches a known malware signature.

It protects against the most common attacks out there on the internet.

Antivirus software is just one piece of our anti-malware defenses.

Binary whitelisting software

507 Disk Encryption6мин
System Hardening

Full-disk encryption (FDE)
Works by automatically converting data on a hard drive into a form that cannot be understood by anyone who doesn't have the key to "undo" the conversation

Secure Boot Protocol
Platform key

Bitlocker
Filevault 2
dm-crypt
TrueCrypt
VeraCrypt

When you implement a full disk encryption solution at scale, it’s super important to think about how to handle cases where passwords are forgotten.

Key Escrow
Allows the encryption key to be securely stored for later retrieval by an authorized party

Home directory or file-based encryption
only guarantees confidentiality and integrity of files protected by encryption.

508 Heather Self Learning1мин
509 Software Patch Management6мин
Application Hardening

As an IT Support Specialist, its critical that you make sure that you install software updates and security patches in a timely way, in order to defend your company's systems and networks.

The best protection is to have a good system and policy in place for your company.

SCCM

Critical infrastructure devices should be approached carefully when you apply updates. There’s always the risk that a software update will introduce a new bug that might affect the functionality of the device.

510 Application Policies4мин
Application Hardening

A common recommendation, or even a requirement, is to only support or require the latest version of a piece of software.

It’s generally a good idea to disallow risky classes of software by policy. Things like file sharing software and piracy-related software tend to be closely associated with malware infections.

Understanding what your users need to
do their jobs will help shape your approach to software policies and guidelines.

Helping your users accomplish tasks by recommending or supporting specific software makes for a more secure environment.

Extensions that require full access to web sites visited can be risky, since the extension developer has the power to modify pages visited.

511 3 материала дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
512 Supplemental Reading for Logging and Auditing10мин
513 Supplemental Readings for Antimalware Protection10мин
514 Supplemental Reading for Disk Ecryption10мин
515 3 практических упражнени¤
516 System Hardening30мин
517 Application Hardening30мин
518 Defense in Depth40мин





601 Ќ≈ƒ≈Ћя 6 Creating a Company Culture for Security
Congratulations, you've made it to the final week in the course! In the last week of this course, we'll explore ways to create a company culture for security. It's important for any tech role to determine appropriate measures to meet the three goals of security. By the end of this module, you will develop a security plan for an organization to demonstrate the skills you've learned in this course. You're almost done, keep up the great work!

602 Security Goals7мин
Risk in the Workplace

If your company handles credit card payments, then you have to follow the PCI DSS, or Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.

-1. Build and maintain a secure network and systems.
-2. Protect cardholder data.
-3. Maintain a vulnerability management program.
-4. Implement strong access control measures.
-5. Regularly monitor and test networks.
-6. Maintain an information security policy.

603 Measuring and Assessing Risk5мин
Risk in the Workplace

Security is all about determining risks or exposure; understanding the likelihood of attacks; and designing defenses around these risks to minimize the impact of an attack.

Security risk assessment starts with threat modeling.

High-value data usually includes account information, like usernames and passwords. Typically, any kind of user data is considered high value, especially if payment processing is involved.

Vulnerability Scanner
A computer program designed to assess computers, computer systems, networks or applications for weaknesses

Nessus
OpenVAS
Qualys

Penetration testing
The practice of attempting to break into system or network to verify the systems in place

604 Privacy Policy3мин
Risk in the Workplace

Privacy policies oversee the access and use of sensitive data.

Доступ
Правмерный
Не правомерный
Ограничения

Политики
конфиденциальности
доступа

It's a good practice to apply the principle of least privilege here, by not allowing access to this type of data by default.

Запрашивать доступ
Зачем нужны данные
Какая нужна информация
На какое время


Any access that doesn’t have a corresponding request should be flagged as a high-priority potential breach that needs to be investigated as soon as possible.

Data-handling policies should cover the details of how different data is classified.

Once different data classes are defined, you should create guidelines around how to handle these different types of data.

605 User Habits6мин
Users

You can build the world's best security systems, but they won't protect you if the users are going to be practicing unsafe security.

You should never upload confidential information onto a third-party service that hasn’t been evaluated by your company.

It's important to make sure employees use new and unique passwords, and don’t reuse them from other services.

A much greater risk in the workplace that users should be educated on is credential theft from phishing emails.

If someone entered their password into a phishing site, or even suspects they did, it s important to change their password as soon as possible.

If someone entered their password into a phishing site, or even suspects they did, it s important to change their password as soon as possible.

606 Third-Party Security4мин
Users

If they have subpar security, you’re undermining your security defenses by potentially opening a new avenue of attack.

If you can, ask for a third-party security assessment report.
репутация
аудит оценить систему защиты
ознакомиться с продуктом на время
справки о заците компании
отчет по аудиту ее систем
отчет о петтесте

VSAQ - Vendor Security Assessment Questionnaires
•	Web Appication Security Questionnaire
•	Socunty & Privacy Program Questionnaire
•	Infrastructure Security Questionnaire
•	Physical & Detaosntoc Security Questionnaire

607 Security Training3мин
Users

возможность задавать вопросы
спец почтовый адрес


Helping others keep security in mind will help decrease the security burdens you'll have as an IT Support Specialist.

блокировать экран
If not, you absolutely should be!

You also need to justify why these are good behaviors to adopt.

тренинги
типа видео 
тест

608 Alex Grit Story1мин

609 Incident Reporting and Analysis6мин
Incident Handling

The very first step of handling an incident is to detect it in the first place.

The next step is to analyze it and determine
the effects and scope of damage.

spinel% sudo tcpdump any -i

spinel% sudo tcpdump -i enol ip and host example.com [sudo] password for mrant:

tcpdump: verbose output suppressed, use -v or -vv for full protocol decode listening on enol, link-type EN10MB (Ethernet), capture size 262144 bytes

spinel% curl example.com

Once the scope of the incident is determined, the next step is containment.

If an account was compromised, change the password immediately. If the owner is unable to change the password right away, then lock the account.

Severity includes factors like what and how many systems were compromised, and how the breach affects business functions.

Severity includes factors like what and how many systems were compromised, and how the breach affects business functions.

The impact of an incident is also an important issue to consider.

Data exfiltration
The unauthorized transfer of data from computer

Recoverability
How complicated and time-consuming the recovery effort will be

610 Incident Response and Recovery6мин
Incident Handling

Update firewall rules and ACLs if an exposure was discovered in the course the investigation.

Create new definitions and rules for intrusion detection systems that can watch for the signs of the same attack again.

611 Mobile Security and Privacy3мин
Screen lock
Permissions

612 Amir Interview1мин
613 Ari Interview1мин
614 Interview Role Play: Security4мин
615 Final Assessment32
616 Framing yourself1мин
617 Congratulations!51
618 9 материалов дл¤ самосто¤тельного изучени¤
619 Supplemental Reading for Risk in the Workplace10мин
620 Supplemental Reading for User Habits10мин
621 Supplemental Reading for Vendor Security Assessment Questionnaires10мин
622 Supplemental Readings for Mobile Security and Privacy10мин
623 Invitation to Sign Up for Big Interview10мин
624 Final Project - Sample Submission10мин
625 How to Add Google IT Support Certificate to Your Resume and LinkedIn Profile10мин
626 Common Job Search Terms10мин
627 Information and FAQs about badges10мин
628 6 практических упражнений
629 Risk in the Workplace30мин
Risk in the Workplace
Total points 5
Question 1
What are some examples of security goals that you may have for an organization? Check all that apply. 
v To prevent unauthorized access to customer credentials 
To implement a strong password policy 
v To protect customer data from unauthorized access 
To deploy an Intrusion Prevention System
Correct
Great job! These are super important goals. Safeguards or systems should be implemented to help achieve them. It's important to distinguish between a discrete goal and the mechanisms or defense systems that help you to achieve these goals. Defenses on their own aren't goals, but they allow us to work towards these goals.
Question 2
Which of these would you consider high-value targets for a potential attacker? Check all that apply. 
v Authentication databases 
Logging server
v Customer credit card information 
Networked printers 
Correct
That's right! Customer credit card data is really valuable to attackers, since it can be a hot commodity in the shadier areas of the internet. The same goes for authentication databases, since this could provide attackers with usernames and passwords that might give them access to accounts on other websites and services.
Question 3
What's the purpose of a vulnerability scanner? 
It blocks malicious traffic from entering your network.
vv It detects vulnerabilities on your network and systems. 
It protects your network from malware. 
It fixes vulnerabilities on systems. 
Correct
Correct! A vulnerability scanner will scan and evaluate hosts on your network. It does this by looking for misconfigurations or vulnerabilities, then compiling a report with what it found.
Question 4
What are some restrictions that should apply to sensitive and confidential data? Check all that apply. 
It can be transferred via email.
It can be stored on removable media. 
It can be accessed and stored on personal devices. 
v It can be stored on encrypted media only. 
Correct
Nice work! Sensitive data should be treated with care so that an unauthorized third-party doesn't gain access. Ensuring this data is encrypted is an effective way to safeguard against unauthorized access.
Question 5
What's a privacy policy designed to guard against? 
Eavesdropping on communications 
Attackers stealing customer data 
vv Misuse or abuse of sensitive data
Denial-of-service attacks 
Correct
Yep! Privacy policies are meant to govern the access and use of sensitive data for authorized parties.
-----
Users
Total points 2
Question 1
You're interested in using the services of a vendor company. How would you assess their security capabilities? Check all that apply. 
v Ask them to provide any penetration testing or security assessment reports
v Ask them to complete a questionnaire 
Request full access to their systems to perform an assessment 
Assume that they're using industry-standard solutions 
Correct
Great job! A security assessment questionnaire allows you to quickly and efficiently get a broad understanding of what security measures a vendor company has in place. If available, any reports detailing penetration testing results or security assessments would also be valuable.
Question 2
What's the goal of mandatory IT security training for an organization? Check all that apply. 
To punish employees with poor security practices 
v To build a culture that prioritizes security 
To avoid the need for a security team
v To educate employees on how to stay secure 
Correct
Exactly! IT security training for employees should be designed to educate them on how to keep themselves and the organization secure, and to encourage a culture of security.
---
Incident Handling
Total points 2
Question 1
What's the first step in handling an incident? 
v Detect the incident 
Contain the incident 
Recover from the incident
Remove or eradicate of the incident 
Correct
Yep! Before you can take any action, you have to be aware that an incident occurred in the first place.
Question 2
How do you protect against a similar incident occurring again in the future? 
Change all account passwords. 
Cross your fingers and hope for the best!
Update your antivirus definitions. 
v Conduct a post-incident analysis.
Correct
Correct! By analyzing the incident and figuring out the details of how an attacker compromised a network or system, you can learn what vulnerabilities were exploited and take steps to close them.
-----
Creating a Company Culture for Security
q1
What characteristics are used to assess the severity of found vulnerabilities? Check all that apply.
v Chance of exploitation
Use of encryption or not
v Type of access gained
v Remotely exploitable or not
Correct
Wohoo! Things to consider when evaluating a vulnerability are how likely it is to be exploited, the type of access an attacker could get, and whether or not the vulnerability is exploitable remotely.
q2
Which of the following should be incorporated into a reasonably secure password policy that balances security with usability? Check all that apply.
A requirement to use dictionary words
v A password expiration time of 6-12 months
v A complexity requirement of special characters and numbers
v A length of at least 8 characters
Correct
Excellent job! A good balance of a strong but useable password is at least 8 characters, includes a mixture of punctuation characters, and rotates periodically, but not too frequently.
q3
What are the first two steps of incident handling and response? Check all that apply.
v Incident detection
v Incident containment
Incident eradication or removal
Incident recovery
Correct
Nice work! The first step is incident detection, because you need to be aware of an ongoing incident before you can react to it. Once you've detected the incident, you can begin containment to minimize the impact of the incident.
q4
Beyond restoring normal operations and data, what else should be done during the recovery phase?
Assign blame for the incident
Take systems offline
Update documentation
v Correct the underlying root cause
q5
A company wants to restrict access to sensitive data. Only those who have a "need to know" will have access to this data. Strong access controls need to be implemented. Which of these examples, that don't include user identification, are used for 2-factor authentication? Check all that apply.
v U2F token
Correct
U2F token is one factor of authentication that does not include user identification.
Common Access Card
Smart card
v Password
q6
____ is the practice of attempting to break into a system or network for the purpose of verification of systems in place.
Vulnerability scanning
v Penetration testing
Security assessment
Network probing
q7
When employees need to access sensitive data, they should do all of the following EXCEPT what?
v A second signature
Provide justification
-Specify exact data needed
Time limit
"Privacy Policy"
q8
When considering third-party service providers to host sensitive data, you should conduct a vendor risk review. What actions does this include? Check all that apply.
Ask vendor for a cost comparison.
Talk to vendor employees.
v Test the vendor's hardware or software.
v Ask vendor to fill out a security questionnaire.
Correct
You got it! The questionnaire will cover various aspects of their security policies, procedures, and defenses in place.
q9
Management wants to build a culture where employees keep security in mind. Employees should be able to access information freely and provide feedback or suggestions without worry. Which of these are great ideas for this type of culture? Check all that apply.
Bring your own device
Posters promoting good security behavior
?Desktop monitoring software
v Designated mailing list
Correct
Awesome! A mailing list is where people can ask questions or report things related to security.
q10
When you are working on your laptop in a public area, always _____ when you get up to use the restroom.
Ask permission to leave.
v Lock your screen.
Set up a VPN.
Take your smartphone.
Correct
Well done! When you are working on your laptop in a public space, like a coffee shop, lock your screen when you get up to use the restroom.
q11
The incident response team found malware on several user workstations. Trying to remove the malware infection is becoming time consuming. There is important data on the workstations. Which of these actions will recover the workstations back to a malware-free state? Check all that apply.
v Restore file from backup
Correct
Right on! After rebuilding the machine, user files can be restored from a backup store.
-Replace the hard drive
Replace network cable
v Rebuild the machine
Correct
Right on! Affected systems can be restored to a known good configuration by rebuilding the machine.
"Incident Response and Recovery"
q12
What are some behaviors you should encourage in order to build a security-conscious culture? Check all that apply.
Shaming people who haven't done a good job of ensuring your company's security
v Asking security-related questions
v Locking your screen
v Checking website URLs when authenticating
Correct
Great job! Encouraging people to lock their screens when they walk away from their computer is a very important behavior to reinforce. The same goes for checking the address of the website they're authenticating to, to make sure it's not a fake phishing site. It's also important that people are comfortable asking security questions when they're unsure.
q13
Which of these are bad security habits commonly seen amongst employees in the workplace? Check all that apply.
v Password on a post-it note
Correct
Great work! Writing down passwords on a post-it is a bad security habit.
v Leave laptop logged in and unattended
Correct
Great work! Leaving a laptop logged in and unattended is a bad security habit.
Lock desktop screen
Log out of website session
q14
Google provides free _____, which is a good starting point when assessing third-party vendors.
Mobile phone services
Business apps
Cloud storage
v Vendor security assessment questionnaires
Correct
Woohoo! Google's Vendor Security Assessment Questionnaires are a good starting point to design your own vendor security assessment questionnaire.
q15
After a known good backup has been restored and the known vulnerabilities have been closed, systems should be thoroughly _____.
backed up
baselined
v tested
removed

630 Users30мин
631 Incident Handling30мин
632 Creating a Company Culture for Security55мин
633 Creating a Company Culture for Security - Design Document30мин
634 Your Access to Google Job Search Resources5мин
641 Tests
System Hardening
Total points 10
Question 1
What is an attack vector? 
-The severity of the attack
-The classification of attack type 
A mechanism by which an attacker can interact with your network or systems 
v The direction an attack is going in 
Question 2
Disabling unnecessary components serves which purposes? Check all that apply. 
v Closing attack vectors
v Reducing the attack surface 
Making a system harder to use 
Increasing performance 
Right on! Every unnecessary component represents a potential attack vector. The attack surface is the sum of all attack vectors. So, disabling unnecessary components closes attack vectors, thereby reducing the attack surface.
Question 3
What's an attack surface? 
The target or victim of an attack 
The payload of the attack 
vv The combined sum of all attack vectors in a system or network
The total scope of an attack 
Correct
Yep! The attack surface describes all possible ways that an attacker could interact and exploit potential vulnerabilities in the network and connected systems.
Question 4
A good defense in depth strategy would involve deploying which firewalls? 
No firewalls 
vv Both host-based and network-based firewalls
Network-based firewalls only 
Host-based firewalls only 
Correct
You got it! Defense in depth involves multiple layers of overlapping security. So, deploying both host- and network-based firewalls is recommended.
Question 5
Using a bastion host allows for which of the following? Select all that apply. 
v Applying more restrictive firewall rules 
? Having more detailed monitoring and logging 
Running a wide variety of software securely
v Enforcing stricter security measures 
Correct
Wohoo! Bastion hosts are special-purpose machines that permit restricted access to more sensitive networks or systems. By having one specific purpose, these systems can have strict authentication enforced, more firewall rules locked down, and closer monitoring and logging.
Question 6
What benefits does centralized logging provide? Check all that apply. 
v It allows for easier logs analysis. 
v It helps secure logs from tampering or destruction.
It prevents database theft. 
It blocks malware infections. 
Correct
Yes! Centralized logging is really beneficial, since you can harden the log server to resist attempts from attackers trying to delete logs to cover their tracks. Keeping logs in place also makes analysis on aggregated logs easier by providing one place to search, instead of separate disparate log systems.
Question 7
What are some of the shortcomings of antivirus software today? Check all that apply. 
It only protects against viruses. 
It's very expensive. 
It only detects malware, but doesn't protect against it.
v It can't protect against unknown threats. 
Correct
Awesome! Antivirus software operates off a blacklist, blocking known bad entities. This means that brand new, never-before-seen malware won't be blocked.
Question 8
How is binary whitelisting a better option than antivirus software? 
It's cheaper. 
v It can block unknown or emerging threats. 
It's not better. It's actually terrible.
It has less performance impact. 
Question 9
What does full-disk encryption protect against? Check all that apply. 
Malware infections 
v Tampering with system files 
v Data theft 
IP spoofing attacks
Correct
Excellent job! With the contents of the disk encrypted, an attacker wouldn't be able to recover data from the drive in the event of physical theft. An attacker also wouldn't be able to tamper with or replace system files with malicious ones.
Question 10
What's the purpose of escrowing a disk encryption key? 
Preventing data theft 
v Performing data recovery 
Providing data integrity 
Protecting against unauthorized access
Yep! Key escrow allows the disk to be unlocked if the primary passphrase is forgotten or unavailable for whatever reason.
-------
Application Hardening
Total points 2
Question 1
Why is it important to keep software up-to-date? 
It's not important. It's just annoying. 
To ensure access to the latest features 
v To address any security vulnerabilities discovered
To ensure compatibility with other systems 
Correct
Nice work! As vulnerabilities are discovered and fixed by the software vendor, applying these updates is super important to protect yourself against attackers.
Question 2
What are some types of software that you'd want to have an explicit application policy for? Check all that apply.
v Video games
Word processors 
v Filesharing software 
Software development kits
Correct
Great job! Video games and filesharing software typically don't have a use in business (though it does depend on the nature of the business). So, it might make sense to have explicit policies dictating whether or not this type of software is permitted on systems.
-------
Defense in Depth
q1
What's the key characteristic of a defense-in-depth strategy to IT security?
Confidentiality
v Multiple overlapping layers of defense
Encryption
Strong passwords
q2
What does full-disk encryption protect against? Check all that apply.
Eavesdropping
v Data theft
Malware
v Data tampering
q3
Securely storing a recovery or backup encryption key is referred to as _______.
Key encryption
Key obfuscation
Key backup
v Key escrow
q4
Which of these host-based firewall rules help to permit network access from a Virtual Private Network (VPN) subnet?
Active Directory
Secure Shell (SSH)
v Access Control Lists (ACLs)
Group Policy Objects (GPOs)
q5
Which of these plays an important role in keeping attack traffic off your systems and helps to protect users? Check all that apply.
v Antivirus software
Multiple Attack Vectors
v Antimalware measures
Full disk encryption (FDE)
q6
What can provide resilience against data theft, and can prevent an attacker from stealing confidential information from a hard drive that was stolen?
Key escrow
v Full disk encryption (FDE)
OS upgrades
Software patch management
q7
What is the purpose of installing updates on your computer? Check all that apply.
v Updating improves performance and stability.
v Updating adds new features.
v Updating addresses security vulnerabilities.
Updating helps block all unwanted traffic.
q8
What is the combined sum of all attack vectors in a corporate network?
v The attack surface
The antivirus software
The Access Control List (ACL)
The risk
642 Tests
q1
Authentication is concerned with determining _______.
-Access
Identity
Eligibility
Validity
q2
Which of the following are valid multi-factor authentication factors? Check all that apply.
v Something you know
Something you did
v Something you have
v Something you are
Correct
Nice job! The three factors of authentication that can be combined for multi-factor authentication are: (1) something you know, like a password; (2) something you have, like a physical token; and (3) something you are, which would be a biometric factor.
q3
Security Keys utilize a secure challenge-and-response authentication system, which is based on ________.
Shared secrets
Steganography
Symmetric encryption
v Public key cryptography
q4
The authentication server is to authentication as the ticket granting service is to _______.
v Authorization
Integrity
Verification
Identification
q5
Which of these are examples of "something you have" for multifactor authentication? Check all that apply.
v RSA SecureID token
v OTP
Correct
Awesome! OTP or One-Time-Password, is a physical token that is commonly used to generate a short-lived number.
PING
Password
q6
In a Certificate Authority (CA) infrastructure, why is a client certificate used?
To authenticate the CA
To authenticate the server
v To authenticate the client
To authenticate the subordinate CA
q7
What is used to request access to services in the Kerberos process?
v Ticket Granting Ticket
TGS session key
Client ID
Client-to-Server ticket
q8
Kerberos enforces strict _____ requirements, otherwise authentication will fail.
NTP
v Time
AES
Strong password
q9
Which of these are examples of a Single Sign-On (SSO) service? Check all that apply.
v OpenID
Correct
You got it! OpenID is an example of a decentralized Single Sign-On (SSO) service.
v Kerberos
Tokens
Relying Parties
q10
A company is utilizing Google Business applications for the marketing department. These applications should be able to temporarily access a user's email account to send links for review. Why should the company use Open Authorization (OAuth) in this situation?
Administer multiple network devices
Utilize a Key Distribution Center server
v Compatibility with third party apps
Gain access through a wireless access point
q11
Access control entries can be created for what types of file system objects? Check all that apply.
APIs
v Programs
v Folders
Correct
Great work! Access control entries can define permissions controlling read, write, or execute functionalities on folders.
v Files
Correct
Great work! Access control entries can define permissions controlling read, write, or execute functionalities on files.
q21
Authz is short for ________.
Authored
Authoritarian
v Authorization
Authentication
q22
q23
q24
In the three As of security, what is the process of proving who you claim to be?
Accounting
v Authentication
Authorization
Authored
q25
Your bank set up multifactor authentication to access your account online. You know your password. What other factor combined with your password qualifies for multifactor authentication? Check all that apply.
Passphrase
v Fingerprint
Correct
Well done! A fingerprint is something you are. A multifactor system will incorporate at least two factors.
v Bank card
Correct
Well done! A bank card is something you have. A multifactor system will incorporate at least two factors.
PIN
q26
q27
A network admin wants to use a Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) protocol to allow 5 user accounts to connect company laptops to an access point in the office. These are generic users and will not be updated often. Which of these internal sources would be appropriate to store these accounts in?
SQL database
v Flat file
Correct
Well done! A flat file is an internal source that can store user accounts on a RADIUS server.
LDAP
Active Directory
q28
What are the benefits of using a Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication service? Check all that apply.
v One set of credentials for the user
Correct
You nailed it! Single Sign-On (SSO) allows a user to have one set of credentials.
v Reduce likelihood of passwords being written down
v Reduce overhead of password assistance
Correct
You nailed it! Single Sign-On (SSO) reduces the overhead of password assistance.
v Reduce time spent on re-authenticating to services
Correct
You nailed it! Single Sign-On (SSO) reduces the time spent on re-authenticating to services.
q29
In the three As of security, which part pertains to describing what the user account does or doesn't have access to?
Authentication
v Authorization
Accessibility
Accounting
q30
An Open Authorization (OAuth) access token would have a _____ that tells what the third party app has access to.
v scope
template
request
e-mail
The access token would have a scope, which says that it can only be used to access email, not other services associated with the account. 
q31
A network admin deployed a Terminal Access Controller Access Control System Plus (TACACS+) system so other admins can properly manage multiple switches and routers on the local area network (LAN). The system will keep track and log admin access to each device and the changes made. This “logging” satisfies which part of the three As of security?
Accounting
v?Authentication
Administration
-Authorization
644 tasks
Secure Network Architecture
Total points 7
Question 1
Why is normalizing log data important in a centralized logging setup? 
v Uniformly formatted logs are easier to store and analyze. 
 It's difficult to analyze abnormal logs. 
Log normalizing detects potential attacks. 
The data must be decrypted before sending it to the log server.
Question 2
What type of attacks does a flood guard protect against? Check all that apply. 
v DDoS attacks 
Malware infections 
v SYN floods
Man-in-the-middle attacks 
?
Question 3
What does DHCP Snooping protect against? 
v Rogue DHCP server attacks 
Data theft 
DDoS attacks
Brute-force attacks 
Question 4
What does Dynamic ARP Inspection protect against? 
-v Rogue DHCP server attacks 
v ARP poisoning attacks 
DDoS attacks 
Malware infections
Question 5
What does IP Source Guard protect against? 
DDoS attacks 
Brute-force attacks 
v IP spoofing attacks
Rogue DHCP server attacks 
Question 6
What does EAP-TLS use for mutual authentication of both the server and the client? 
One-time passwords
Biometrics
v Digital certificates 
Usernames and passwords 
Question 7
Why is it recommended to use both network-based and host-based firewalls? Check all that apply. 
v For protection against compromised hosts on the same network 
-For protection against DDoS attacks 
v For protection for mobile devices, like laptops 
For protection against man-in-the-middle attacks
--------------
Wireless Security
Total points 4
Question 1
What are some of the weaknesses of the WEP scheme? Check all that apply. 
v Its small IV pool size 
Its use of ASCII characters for passphrases 
v Its use of the RC4 stream cipher 
v Its poor key generation methods
Question 2
What symmetric encryption algorithm does WPA2 use? 
v AES
RSA
DSA
DES
Question 3
How can you reduce the likelihood of WPS brute-force attacks? Check all that apply. 
Update firewall rules.
v Implement lockout periods for incorrect attempts.
v Disable WPS.
Use a very long and complex passphrase.
Question 4
Select the most secure WiFi security configuration from below: 
WPA personal
WPA enterprise
v WPA2 enterprise
None
WPA2 personal
WEP 128 bit
---------
Network Monitoring
Total points 5
Question 1
What does tcpdump do? Select all that apply. 
v Analyzes packets and provides a textual analysis 
Encrypts your packets
v Captures packets 
Generates packets 
Question 2
What does wireshark do differently from tcpdump? Check all that apply. 
It can capture packets and analyze them. 
v It understands more application-level protocols. 
It can write packet captures to a file.
v It has a graphical interface. 
Question 3
What factors should you consider when designing an IDS installation? Check all that apply. 
v Storage capacity 
Internet connection speed
v Traffic bandwidth 
v OS types in use 
Question 4
What is the difference between an Intrusion Detection System and an Intrusion Prevention System? 
They are the same thing.
v An IDS can alert on detected attack traffic, but an IPS can actively block attack traffic.
An IDS can actively block attack traffic, while an IPS can only alert on detected attack traffic.
An IDS can detect malware activity on a network, but an IPS can't
Question 5
What factors would limit your ability to capture packets? Check all that apply.
v Network interface not being in promiscuous or monitor mode
Anti-malware software
Encryption
v Access to the traffic in question
You got it! If your NIC isn't in monitor or promiscuous mode, it'll only capture packets sent by and sent to your host. In order to capture traffic, you need to be able to access the packets. So, being connected to a switch wouldn't allow you to capture other clients' traffic.
----
What traffic would an implicit deny firewall rule block?
Everything not allowed
Outbound traffic
Nothing unless blocked
Inbound traffic
Question 2
The process of converting log entry fields into a standard format is called _______.
Log auditing
Log analysis
Log encryption
Log normalization
Question 3
A ______ can protect your network from DoS attacks.
Flood Guard
Dynamic ARP Inspection
IP Source Guard
DHCP Snooping
Question 4
Using different VLANs for different network devices is an example of _______.
Network Separation
Implicit Denial
Remote Access
Network Encryption
Question 5
How do you protect against rogue DHCP server attacks?
DHCP Snooping
IP Source Guard
Dynamic ARP Inspection
Flood Guard
Question 6
What does Dynamic ARP Inspection protect against?
ARP Man-in-the-middle attacks
IP Spoofing attacks
DoS attacks
Rogue DHCP Server attacks
Question 7
What kind of attack does IP Source Guard protect against?
ARP Man-in-the-middle attacks
Rogue DHCP Server attacks
DoS attacks
IP Spoofing attacks
Question 8
A reverse proxy is different from a proxy because a reverse proxy provides ______.
Privacy
DoS protection
Remote Access
Authentication
Question 9
What underlying symmetric encryption cipher does WEP use?
RSA
AES
DES
RC4
Question 10
What key lengths does WEP encryption support? Check all that apply. 
Question 11
What's the recommended way to protect a WPA2 network? Check all that apply.
Use a unique SSID
Hide the SSID
Use a long, complex passphrase
Use WEP64
Question 12
If you're connected to a switch and your NIC is in promiscuous mode, what traffic would you be able to capture? Check all that apply.
All traffic on the switch
No traffic
Broadcast traffic
Traffic to and from your machine
Question 13
What could you use to sniff traffic on a switch?
Promiscuous Mode
DHCP Snooping
Network hub
Port Mirroring
Question 14
What does tcpdump do?
Performs packet capture and analysis
Handles packet injection
Generates DDoS attack traffic
Brute forces password databases
Question 15
Compared to tcpdump, wireshark has a much wider range of supported _______.
Packet sizes
Protocols
Languages
Packet types
Question 16
A Network Intrusion Detection System watches for potentially malicious traffic and _______ when it detects an attack.
Triggers alerts
Shuts down
Blocks traffic
Disables network access
Question 17
What does a Network Intrusion Prevention System do when it detects an attack?
It triggers an alert.
It does nothing.
It attacks back.
It blocks the traffic.

